Q$Q$Q
What are good ways to protect yourself from identity theft?
A$A$A
I am based in the USA now, leading AardvarkCompare - Travel Insurance Marketplace , but lived in the UK, Germany, France, Switzerland, Spain and Portugal. I have traveled for business and leisure all my working life.

We covered this recently with regard to ID theft when traveling.

AardvarkCompare - Travel Insurance Marketplace - How to Keep ID-Safe When Traveling

Identity Theft is an Issue While Traveling

Although this crime can happen anywhere to anyone and it’s growing every year, tourists make some great targets. Think about it: who else carries all their important documents around with them? At any given moment in every major tourist city, there are hundreds of enticing targets for identity thieves: each carrying a passport, driver’s license, credit cards and who knows what else. And it’s all in one convenient location, touring the city in a state of touristic wonderment and unawareness that makes them so ripe for theft.

It’s the identity theft perpetrator’s dream!

That may be why 60% of respondents in one survey reported that identity theft had made an impact on their travel experience in 2015. Of those, a surprising 21% said the issue had impacted their trip “a great deal”.

So that you don’t become part of these statistics on your next trip, here are some guidelines to help keep you safe.

3 Ways to Prevent Becoming Part of the Statistics

Strip down your wallet before you travel.No need to lug along those department store credit cards while traveling abroad. And while you’re at it, remove any other cards you won’t need on the road.

Practice safe ATM-ing. If you use a cash machine to withdraw money from a bank, block the screen with your body, even if you think nobody is around. Someone could be posted up somewhere with binoculars.

Actually use that hotel safe this time.Don’t carry all your ID documents with you to every tourist spot you hit while traveling. Leave some behind in the hotel, but in the safe.

And if you do indeed become a victim, despite following these safety guidelines, it’s good to know that some travel insurance can assist you in these cases. There’s something called identity theft protection, now offered by some underwriters, and it helps travelers out when they’ve had their documents – and possibly their identity – stolen.

Here’s how that works:

The coverage offers assistance during the initial stages of the discovery of the theft. They can help you determine whether there was indeed any fraud, and how to proceed from there.

They’ll also help you with submitting paperwork to banks, authorities, or credit bureaus.

You’ll also get help, if necessary, with some preventive measures like monitoring your credit card accounts for fraud and helping you with freezing or canceling them if need be.

If your passport or other documents are stolen, the coverage may help you restore those items.

Safe Travels!

Jonathan Breeze's answer to What are the best airplane life hacks?
A$A$A
Identity theft is a serious issue and situation is getting even worse. From the reports of previous years, it has been noticed that there has been a 50% increase in the cases of identity theft.

Once a hacker gets the hold of your identity he can easily rack up thousands of dollars on your name using illegal methods. It is important that you protect yourself from such frauds and maintain your good reputation. Here are some old and new ways you can use to protect yourself from identity theft.

Traditional Methods

> Monitor your accounts

You should always review your accounts and if you notice any suspicious activity it is important that you inform the authorities. Their immediate action can protect you from a major loss.

> Have a password management system

Recently, a password management system has been introduced. It will keep all your passwords protected as well as you will get a reminder every month to change your password. In this way hackers will not get a chance to get into your system. You will not have to remember several passwords because the system will show you the password you require.

> Do not be too social

Social media is rapidly flourishing, and you do not know the person you have in your friend list is a hacker or not. Sharing your personal information on social media can be really dangerous. They can use your little information to steal your identity and things can get really serious.

> Never leave a paper trail

A common mistake that most of the individuals make is they leave a paper trail that works perfectly for the hackers. Most of the professional hackers will check your previous history to get information about your accounts and transactions. It is important that you remove all your previous history whether you have it in the paper form or stored digitally. When you will remove paper trail hackers will not get a chance to reach you.

Blockchain Technology

Blockchain Technology is the recently introduced technology that is providing a way to manage our accounts and money digitally. It is providing better protection than credit cards and cash. Once you get your money converted into bitcoin you will get the following security facilities.

You can have encrypted wallets in which you keep your bitcoins. It will provide you the facility to transfer funds and use the other for your transactions.

You will get unique private keys which act as your digital signature, do not share them with anyone to protect your privacy

Keep your office wallet key stored in any offline medium like USB

You can select the method that you are more comfortable with. As technology is advancing it has become hard to protect yourself from identity theft but you should never stop trying.

Source
A$A$A
Shielding private information without any risk of breakdown may seem impossible in this day and age. However, there are some easy ways on how to protect yourself to avoid being a victim of ID theft. Take control of your information to protect your online identity all the time using the following tips:

In today’s time where online banking is increasingly universal and access to big chunks of net worth is only a password and username away, creating a strong password is very essential. Professionals recommend that your password should not be a word that is found in the dictionary.

It is necessary to use cautiousness when planning to give out your personal information. Scammers ‘phish’ for victims by the means of pretending to be government agencies, stores or banks. They are doing this in postal mail, in emails and over the phone.

Protect the social security number. Avoid carrying your social security card or any other cards showing your SSN. If it is needed for important matters, you can bring it with you. However, be careful enough to prevent identity theft.

Check your financial statements on a regular basis. Keep an eye out for any unacquainted activity. If ever you find something irregular, you need to report it immediately.

Think carefully before allowing receipts, solicitations, statements and bills leave your house in a single piece. Shred medical and financial statements as well as pre-approved credit card deals and other solicitations, preferably using a cross-cut shredder.

For more information you can visit source site- 7 Ways to Protect Yourself from ID Theft - BlogReign
A$A$A
Let's see:

Keep all of your personal papers locked up at home.

Shred all old bills and documents that you no longer need.

Don't carry any personal identification documents that don't need (SS card, passport,etc) on your person or in a bag or purse.

Only provide personal identity information when there is a clear and compelling need to do as such

Review your credit report at least once a year and take note of any unusual charges or unexplained accounts.

Limit access to your home. This includes not throwing a lot of parties, inviting only people that you really KNOW to your home and staying close when contractors and tradespeople are working in your residence.

If you have relatives or friends who have alcohol, drug and gambling problems, keep a close eye on them and their actions. Most ID theft cases are caused by people who you know and who you thought you could trust.
A$A$A
At the point that preventative services (such as IdentityFraud.com) are required it is too late.  These services may prevent unauthorized access to your accounts and protect your credit, however, your identity has already been compromised. 

Jon Mixon has made some very valid points to be proactive in your personal battle against identity theft.  Another important and often overlooked measure is to protect (encrypt) electronic information containing personal identifying information that you deliver to a third party (financial institution, CPA, attorney, insurance provider, relative, etc.).  Sensitive information in an electronic format is extremely vulnerable and the current measures of faxing and emailing an unprotected PDF file do not instill consumer confidence that only authorized individuals are accessing your valuable information.
A$A$A
Is it possible to protect identity theft in online World?

The most popular crime in this world is cyber crime. In the identification theft the personal identification information is been used wrongly which would include credit card number, name, social security number, credit numbers, etc. It is very essential to understand the exposure to such kind of crimes and it can be stopped.

Following are the few points which can help in protecting oneself from identity theft:

Password Selection:

It could be difficult to remember various passwords, but at the same time it is safe to have different passwords for each of the online banking, social networking accounts, credit card, etc as the a thief can access important information  through password. The password should not include the child’s or any near and dears name, where else usage of a special character, a number, etc so that recognition of password becomes difficult. ...[More]
A$A$A
Most people are concerned about identity theft as it relates to their bank accounts and credit cards, but identity theft also can be devastating if someone gains access to your investment accounts.

The federal and state governments have become more active in recent years in the areas of theft of credit and identity fraud. In 2003 Congress enacted the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (FACTA), offering consumers a way to access their credit reports, free of charge.

The law requires each of the major nationwide consumer reporting companies— Equifax, Experian and TransUnion—to give you a free copy of your credit report every year if you ask for it. The three credit bureaus have joined forces to offer you an easy way to obtain your credit report by going to this Internet address: www.annualcreditreport.com. You can request, view and print any or all of your three reports.

Be sure to obtain reports from all three bureaus—they don’t necessarily all report the same information, and the possibility exists that any one of them might make a mistake.

The bureaus also advise consumers that this service is the only one that they have authorized for requesting your free annual report. It’s a warning for consumers to be on the alert for scam artists who may be offering to obtain copies of your credit reports for you but who actually are looking to obtain personal information about you for purposes of identity theft.

One of the best ways to protect your identity is to keep a close watch on all of your accounts and your credit report. If you notice any suspicious activity, notify the vendor immediately. If you see anything that seems out of place on your credit report, notify the credit agency immediately.
A$A$A
Question:

What are good ways to protect yourself from identity theft?

Great question!!

Answer:

The Equifax data breach teaches us that no matter what we do, there are certain situations that are outside our control. The Equifax data breach affects 145.5 MILLION people in the US.

That is sensitive and personal information (including but not limited to):

-Driver licenses

-Social security numbers

-Dates of birth

-Addresses

-Email addresses

-Credit reports

Here is what you can do to protect yourself now and in the future from identity theft, including data breaches:

-Shred all important documents after you have no use for them (bank statements, and anything really with your personal information on it)

-Keep your valuables in a safe at home

-Buy an RFID wallet (this keep thieves from stealing your credit / debit information from your wallet at a distance)

The most important measure you can take to worry less and to live more is to enroll in protecting your identity. I always recommend IDShield because they are the only service out there that assigns you a licensed private investigator to watch your back online and offline, and if something happens they alert you and take care of it. I am speaking from experience because I have been a victim myself and it is not pretty. Almost went to jail for tax fraud that someone committed using my social security number! (and also if I didn't have a good experience with the service I would never recommend it).

*Please remember that there are forces beyond our control and no matter what we do to be safe, identity theft is a matter of WHEN, not IF (as demonstrated by the graph up above with all the major data breaches I have posted).

Be safe!

-If you have found my answer to be of value, please up vote it.

Thank you for allowing me to answer your question :)
A$A$A
First of all, learn something from it!

Always encrypt your external drive with something like BitLocker!

Let's analyze the risks -

Since you already changed your password : no risk there!

It contains scanned images of all the id cards: Good news - he/she might return your pen drive or give you a call after watching those documents. Bad news - he/she might use them for wrong purpose and buy things like a fake SIM from it!

If the person is evil and wants to play around with your files let's see what he can do : He can use your address proof and ID card and photo to get Fake SIM, but again if the vendor he goes to asks for an original - you're safe - but it's India so it might not be safe cause most of the times vendors don't care -> If they take the fake SIM - you know what they will use it for! 

If the person is really really evil and knows about computers - then he/she can recover the data which you have deleted from the pen drive as well. - Rest I hope you understand, I don't have to mention :)

If I were you, I would have prayed to the Gods of Probability since it's least likely that your pen Drive might have reached some person who knows or is evil enough to actually use that data.

BTW, if in case, something like identity theft does happen in future - you have it logged here that you lost your pen drive and use this as an evidence as well.

Also, Please don't hesitate in reporting this to Police as well. Since the data is too sensitive you can get an FIR report which will be a concrete evidence of the fact that you lost it. Not that it will help you find it :D  but it will shield you in future if someone misuses your identity. :)
A$A$A
Firstly, in order to protect yourself from identity theft, you need to be extremely wary of sharing your sensitive information (credit/debit card information, social security number, bank account details, etc.) online, save for 100% trusted websites/companies that are completely reliable. Read consumer reviews, to get an idea about how trustworthy a site is.

Secondly, it is essential to ensure that whomever you’re sharing this information with, you perform KYC on them priorly. No matter how well you may think you know your customer, it is always better to verify their identity and documents.

There are many apps available in the market that claim to perform digital KYC for you. Nevertheless, the best one I have come across is Shufti Pro (Quick & Secure Digital Verification in Real Time - Shufti Pro). It performs quick, real-time online identity verification for you. Also, it checks the authenticity of your customer’s legal documents, ensuring that the person present in front of the camera is truly the owner of the documents.

Shufti Pro provides the best identity theft protection services. Head over to their website if you wish to know more! :)

(Disclaimer: I'm an employee at Shufti Pro and hence, closely familiar with its workings. I highly recommend the app, not because of my affiliation with it, but because of its accuracy, efficiency and prowess.)
A$A$A
It all depends on what kind of identity theft you are referring too.

New account fraud requires identity monitoring of a credit report, and/or a fraud alert and/or a credit freeze. There are services that will do this for you.

Account takeover requires diligence of the consumer to monitor their accounts. Preventative measure include protecting your PC/Anti-virus etc. But most account takeover is rectified by alerting the entity of a compromise and getting the unauthorized transaction removed. Generally this needs to be done in  specific time frame related to institution policy or state/federal laws.

More here: http://robertsiciliano.com/blog/...
A$A$A
Freeze your credit at all the reporting agencies. You can do this yourself at $10 per agency, do not pay anyone to do this for you, it's a waste of money.

Keep in mind, freezing your credit can be an inconvenience depending on where in your credit life you are. If you are established, own a house, have all the credit cards you need and don't plan on applying for credit on a regular basis (say more than once or twice per year) go ahead and do it. You will need to defrost and refreeze if you should need credit at anytime, that is the inconvenient part.



Clark Howard (Headline News Network - HLN) has a great site with all the resources.

http://www.clarkhoward.com/news/...
A$A$A
Take steps to protect yourself from identity theft:

Secure your social security number. Don’t carry your social security card in your wallet or write your number on your checks. Only give out your social security number (SSN) when absolutely necessary.

Don’t respond to unsolicited requests for personal information (your name, birthdate, social security number, or bank account number) by phone, mail, or online.

Watch out for “shoulder surfers.” Shield the keypad when typing your passwords on computers and at ATMs.

Collect mail promptly. Ask the post office to put your mail on hold when you are away from home.

Pay attention to your billing cycles. If bills or financial statements are late, contact the sender.

Review your receipts. Ask for carbon copies and incorrect charge slips as well. Promptly compare receipts with account statements. Watch for unauthorized transactions.

Shred receipts, credit offers, account statements, and expired cards, to prevent “dumpster divers” from getting your personal information.

Store personal information in a safe place at home and at work.

Install firewalls and virus-detection software on your home computer.

Create complex passwords that identity thieves cannot guess easily. Change your passwords if a company that you do business with has a breach of its databases

Order your credit report once a year and review to be certain that it doesn't include accounts that you have not opened. Check it more frequently if you suspect someone has gained access to your account information.
A$A$A
1. Be extra careful when clicking on links within emails.

2. Be careful about entering sensitive personal information online such as when logging into the bank, and also when posting information on Facebook, Twitter or other social networking site.

3. Ensure that you have basic anti-virus protection on your PC.

4. Ensure that your PC is protected with additional data protection software which safeguards against key logging, phishing, screen captures, etc.

5. Check your bank statement regularly for any unauthorised payments.

More information here:

How do cyber criminals steal your identity and your money?
A$A$A
Simply put, you have to follow these tips if you’ve discovered an identity theft:

Freeze your credit

Opt out of pre-approved offers

Examine emails and phone calls closely

Shred documents

Look at statements carefully

Be careful where you swipe

Use better passwords

How to Prevent Financial Fraud - Tips to Follow | Effectify
A$A$A
There are a lot of great answers here, and I think this article contributes with very useful advice as well: How to Prevent Identity Theft in 20 Essential Steps
A$A$A
Identity Theft could be beaten effectively if you keep certain considerations in mind. I have this blog post for you to read and know what you should do - Identity Theft: A Rising Issue That Demands Crucial Consideration
A$A$A
Here is an article I've written for work that might help explain the different ways that identity theft takes place. This specific post is narrowed down to just college students, but many of the points are applicable universally.

http://www.peoplesmart.com/blog/...
A$A$A
some companies are using software in their offices http://www.tanidenki.co.jp/EZ-Gu... aside from usual virus protection.
A$A$A
Sign up with a preventative service like IdentityFraud.com.  I've been using one for years - helps a lot.  you can also place freezes on any new credit in your name by calling one number (one of the big 3) and they all get the info - so no one can open anything in your name.  But you have to do this every quarter.  Dumb rule, but you do.
A$A$A
You can get a lot of identity protection services for free, or with a bit of work: Create Your Own Identity Theft Protection Service.. For Free
A$A$A
Everyone here has great advice! I would like to add that we have developed an entire arsenal on how to protect yourself from all types of identity theft in the form of our website at www.idtheftcenter.org . We are a non-profit organization founded to help victims and prevent ID Theft so please feel free to peruse our pages and if you have any questions you can give us a call at 888.400.5530. Hope we can help!
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
Fraud Prevention: Are the identity theft protection plans worth the expense?
A$A$A
Identity Theft Protection companies offer a service to monitor your credit report, and in theory they should stop any suspect activity. Paying $200 per year for this service is expensive, as it is relatively easy to monitor your own CC statements, obtain a free credit report from Experian, TransUnion or Equifax once a year (www.annualcreditreport.com), and to request to be notified by these same credit reporting agencies of any suspicious or unusual activity, which can be done with a simple phone call.

What is misleading about the Identity Theft Protection companies are their offers, which usually claim to provide a substantial amount of "identity theft insurance" (ie: $1,000,000) for only a small monthly fee. What is deceptive about this "insurance" is that consumers are lead to believe the insurance will cover any losses incurred of their personal assets due to identity theft, somewhat like FDIC insurance for your checking account. In fact, NONE of these companies include loss of assets as part of their ID theft insurance. The only losses covered are the 'costs incurred trying to restore your identity'. This includes the time and expense of contacting the various credit reporting agencies to remove fraudulent and damaging items from your credit report. While this can be a slow, painful and time consuming process, it is estimated to cost around $6,000-$8,000 on average - nowhere near $1M. Its the equivalent to buying insurance against getting kidnapped by aliens - its not gonna happen.

More recently, there is a legitimate question about whether these ID Theft prevention services even work. Lifelock's CEO Todd Davis famously gave out his personal social security # in an a national TV add campaign, because he was so certain his ID theft prevention system would protect him. Since that time, his own ID has been hijacked at least 13 times by fraudsters, who successfully opened loans for thousands of dollars in his name. Lifelock's own service did not catch any of these fraudulent account activities. Since that time, Lifelock was fined $12M by the FTC for fraudulent advertising.

 http://www.wired.com/threatlevel...
A$A$A
Lets analyze to understand this.

The 2003 survey of the ITRC (Identity theft resource center) found that the average time spent by victims resolving the problem (post theft) is about 330 hours. Ans importantly, not to talk about the mental harassment one has to go through (Of course, this can’t be quantified in numbers).

Second aspect being that the ITAC (Identity theft assistance center) found that 15 millions Americans got their identity stolen in 2012. That’s really a big number. So, no body is immune.

Now, let us talk about the Identity theft protection plans offered by various companies. I find IdentityForce to be the best because the features are better & more robust than competitors.

As can be seen aforesaid, the price hardly comes to $ 18 per month.

If you look at the features, then you would see they provide 360 degree protection against all type of identity thefts (criminal, financial & medical)

So, in my opinion, the protection plans are definitely worth the price.

Hope, I answered your question satisfactorily.
A$A$A
Firstly, if you wish to put identity theft prevention measures in place, it will always be worth the expense considering the trade-off would amount to much more, if you’re scammed.

Secondly, who says that these fraud prevention plans have to cost you a gigantic sum of money? There are many identity theft prevention services available in the market, that are not that expensive at all.

The most efficient emerging SaaS (Software as a Service) in the field is Shufti Pro (Quick & Secure Digital Verification in Real Time - Shufti Pro). It provides you with digital KYC (Know Your Customer) solutions by performing quick, real-time, and accurate online identity and document verification services. These documents can include user’s photo ID, driving license, passport and credit/debit card. The originality of these documents, along with online ID check is performed to confirm that the person in possession of the legal papers/cards is actually the owner and not some impostor.

All of this is carried out in the least cost and time, and highest accuracy as compared to others in the industry. I have attached the link to their website above. Head over if you wish to know more about what Shufti Pro has to offer! :)

(Disclaimer: I'm an employee at Shufti Pro and hence, closely familiar with its workings. I highly recommend the app, not because of my affiliation with it, but because of its accuracy, efficiency and prowess.)
A$A$A
Before you get to if Identity theft protection worth the expense, you have to understand one thing: If a hacker is good enough, he can get through any protection you put up. That being said, there are precautions you can take to minimize the likelihood of you being the next easy target.

use free tools that can help you to protect yourself, like password keepers, anti viruses and etc.

There is also this tool: LogDog Detective. It's quite new, so maybe it's not that popular yet. It scans your email account and shows you all the things in it that put you in danger (passwords, credit cards etc), help you to delete them and send an email asking the person who send it to you to delete it as well.
A$A$A
I'll be blunt: People who sign up for LifeLock and similar services are being ripped off. They're being played. They're being lied to. For as much as $30 per month (per person), these simple "credit monitoring services" are not providing the "proactive identity protection" that they claim to provide.

Look at credit monitoring like this: You just got in a car accident, and then somebody runs up to your car window and shouts, You've been in a car accident! Would you pay for that service?! Companies like LifeLock can only tell you that you've become a victim of financial identity fraud after it happens.

An inexpensive publication, Identity Protection For Free: A Do-It-Yourself Guide, clearly and concisely shows consumers how to lock down their identities. You'll privately and securely complete this task online with one of the three national credit reporting agencies, and there's no charge for doing it. You'll quickly realize that the guidance provided by the $8.95 guide is well worth the small cost -- particularly when you factor in the fact that you can freely share this PDF.
A$A$A
I was a victim of ID theft (my ex-husband knew the info he needed to know about my ID) but I caught it happening before any damage was done.  I did that without any "ID theft protection plan".     It is easy to do this yourself, at no charge.  An additional benefit of doing it yourself is that you will have more protection when you do it yourself.   The only downside is that it will take a small amount of time for you to set it up.   Also when you do it yourself, you are able to catch attempts at using your ID before the "plans" can.  There are just a few things you need to do, in addition to obtaining free copies of your credit reports.   Also note the legal actions  taken against at least one of those companies,    FTC Takes Action Against LifeLock for Alleged Violations of 2010 Order

Thanks for the A2A.
A$A$A
No, they are not. You can have alerts placed on your credit reports by the companies that create them for free. And most people would be able to detect identity theft while it was occurring (unknown bills, strange calls,etc) and could take actions on their own.

Frankly, identity theft as it's shown on most TV programs isn't the issue; those frauds primarily target credit card companies and retail outlets. The more dangerous forms of identity theft would be criminals using your ID to open fraudulent businesses, launder money and engage in criminal activities in foreign countries. None of these would be detected nor prevented by any identity theft protection plan.
A$A$A
Depending on the service, it may possess proactive identity theft protection technology that monitors a consumer's Social Security number in real time on most major creditors databases, and sees when their credit is being considered for new accounts. In the past ten years, these services have amassed talented people who truly have a passion for identity theft protection. When consumers have an identity theft issue, no matter what its nature, they can call 24/7/365 and get a live, empathetic, resourceful professional on the phone to help them resolve their issue.
A$A$A
You ask a great question, seriously.

I have been a victim before and it is not pretty.

Identity theft protection plans are not like insurance where you can’t use it unless you get sick or something.

Identity theft plans are worth every expense, you just have to pick the right company.

I recommend a company called IDShield (if you are in the US / Canada), because you don’t just need monitoring, but RESTORATION if and when anything bad occurs. The reason I recommend them is because like I said, I was a victim, and they assign each and everyone of their members a licensed private investigator who stays on top of your personal information online and offline.

He calls me every now and again to make sure everything is ok, and if anything comes up (such as a person in another state who was doing income tax fraud under my name, I got a call and told my investigator that it wasn’t me, and that I do not work in the state of Texas!).

You see, financial identity theft is only part of the overall picture. It extends to your social security, driver license, credit / debit cards, your passport, your emails, your social media accounts, your medical records and your character.

It is important that you get the necessary protection soon, so that you do not have to suffer. As Janice says, “it is TOTALLY worth it”
A$A$A
I disagree completely with the people who say it is not worth it. I had my ID stolen before it was a crime and it was a pain in the rear. Since then I had got and kept ID protection on myself. I actually use services like    http://www.identityguard.com/ ever since they came out.

I have had my ID stolen a few times since then. Twice they called me up and let me know and THEY stopped it cold before it even started. Once, I got a weird flower delivery and I called them up and they told me it was a common ploy to see if a credit card was valid. Sure enough they did a quick check and someone was trying to use my ID. Again, they were able to shut it down quick.They did all the work and I had to do nothing. It was so unlike the first time were I had to run all over the county shuttind down the criminal.

When the a criminal drained my bank in one weekend, they worked with my bank to get all my money back and they assured me anything my bank did not cover would be covered by them.

I am sure all of this is still the work of the original criminal from years ago. Since the crime back then was just petty theft less than $20 (the price of a DL). Like I said, ID theft was not a crime back then.

So, yeah for me it is TOTALLY worth it. A few bucks a month so I don't have to deal with the hassle of dealing with all the stuff and monitoring my credit every second of the day. Yeah. It is worth it.
A$A$A
Having an extra pair of eyes on your credit to monitor against identity theft never hurt anyone. You have to find the right company though. Try going to a couple of review sites and see what will work best for you.

I prefer Velvet Protection and I actually signed up with Identity Guard myself a long time ago. I take other precautions myself though.

I have alerts on my credit that will notify me if anyone tries to open a new account on my credit. This can be cumbersome sometimes, but it helps.

Also, I love using cards like CapitalOne or Discover Card that have the ability to lock your card without cancelling it in case you're unsure about a potential risk. For example, 2 weeks ago, I got a call about a charge... I didn't remember doing the gas station charge, but it was mine and didn't post until later. I locked the account, without closing the card, investigated and after reviewing the transaction, I found it was mine. Went online, unlocked the card. Simple.
A$A$A
It depends on what kind of fraud prevention tool you are using. Now a days, you will find many of tools online, but, the best idea would be to use the tool that is based on Machine-learning and AI.
A$A$A
Before purchasing an identity-theft product or service, I'd recommending taking some proactive steps to protect yourself, which cost nothing at all. This guide can come in really handy: How to Prevent Identity Theft in 20 Essential Steps
A$A$A
As they say that Prevention is better than cure, so I really do keep a strict check of my digital footprints.

So, if you’re someone who’s smart enough to understands the risks involved in identity theft, I would seriously suggest you to go through this detailed article on how to prevent identity theft.

Besides, better than opting for a plan to prevent identity theft, I would suggest you to start with the basics.

The small tips and hacks about preventing identity theft can really make a difference.
A$A$A
I disagree, for a small price you can save yourself a lot of time, hassle and even money. Yes you can have alerts set up for free with your credit card, and yes you can check your credit every month, but who has the time to do that?

Criminals are using fake ID's to open lines of credit, get small loans, get second mortgages, get new credit cards. Over 11 million people in US alone were victims of identity theft last year (McAfee)
A$A$A
Name one of the worst crimes threatening the US today: Identity theft. In fact, identity theft is now a greater problem than drug trafficking. Once you’ve had your personal information stolen, thieves take out credit cards or loans and can buy all manner of products using your credentials and at your expense.

But I’ve never been targeted, so why should I buy ID theft protection? To make sure you’re not of the millions of people who’ve had their lives ruined and are now facing bankruptcy with huge debts to settle.

Equifax ID Patrol helps customers protect their identities and minimises the possible damage than can occur by monitoring the internet and warning them if their details (credit card and debit card numbers, social security numbers, names and addresses) have been in use. Suspect internet sites are monitored constantly and if you’re details have been used, you’ll be notified within 24 hours allowing you to put a quick stop to any wrongdoing.

What does Equifax ID Patrol do in order to protect me and my family?

Monitors your credit file and alerts you to any key changes

Monitors suspected underground trading sites across the internet and alerts you if your information is used

Allows you 24/7 access to trained ID theft resolution specialists – helping to nip any misdemeanours in the bud fast!

Gives you the ability to lock and unlock your Equifax credit file in real time so you can control who can see it and when

Let’s you receive access to automatic Fraud Alerts

Reassures you with up to $1,000,000 of identity theft insurance if your identity is stolen

For a comprehensive review of identity protection insurance and the top providers : http://equifaxidpatrol.knoji.com...    Answer courtesty of Ann Davey reviewer on Knoji.com
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
After the Equifax Breach, What is the best ID Theft/Credit-Protection offering in the US?
A$A$A
I don’t think they’re all that different. LifeLock has the market recognition, but if you have a US credit card, you’ve got access to credit monitoring. Citi, Chase, Discover† and American Express are the ones that I know of best because I’ve used a few of them over the years (but not Discover, you shut your friggin mouth, — ew, no, just no).

Right now, I use Credit Secure through American Express. I get roughly 24-ish reports per year. On top of that, they monitor all my credit activity, they send me texts, emails and such. I am fastidious about looking at my credit report. In fact, I found a negative mark on my credit a few weeks ago that cost me 100 points and had to run and challenge that negative item.

Well, I say “100 points” but I don’t know that really. One of the big lies about credit is that all these scores are actually real. They aren’t. They’re just a close facsimile of FICO, but only FICO is FICO — it’s proprietary and largely secret. All of the report numbers you get are a good approximation to help you just stay on top of things. That’s all you need to really worry about.

So, my advice is:

Check with your credit card provider for their credit monitoring service.

Check with your home or auto insurance company to see if they’ve provided identity theft insurance. Most of them do these days as an added benefit (that few people actually know about). My home & car insurance company (Progressive) gives me identity theft insurance as part of the package.

†Hah! Discover. How cute.
A$A$A
I see a lot of misunderstanding of id theft monitoring services. That is the problem, they just monitor. When you become a victim of identity theft (noticed I wrote WHEN not IF), it's too late. Identity theft leads to financial theft. But it is much more complicated. Once they get your social security number, your drivers license, date of birth, address, phone number, emails accounts, social media accounts, and IRS tax information, ...pretty much they got everything.

The Equifax breach exposed personal work history, the apartments/different addresses they lived at, social security number, dates of birth, and everything....etc. By the time you find out the damage...weeks, months, years will have gone by before you learn of how badly you have been affected.

To repair identity theft...Or Restore your identity, you will need to hire licensed investigators that specialize in this field of work. As many here have posted, the government at federal, state, or local levels are not equipped for this type of crime. You file a police report, and the officer will ask, "do you know who did it?" Obviously you cannot file charges against ghosts made up of algorithm codes.

1. You need to hire a licensed investigator from Kroll Inc.

https://ls-info.com/res/104/1286...

2. You will need to hire attorneys to solve legal issues that arise from the theft.

3. You will need money. Depending on how severe the crime is.

For example, if you have a warrant for your arrest for a DUI traffic violations in different states because someone used your licensed information, you will need to hire attorneys licensed in each state. That is expensive.
A$A$A
Hey there!

What a fantastic question : “After the Equifax Breach, What is the best ID Theft/Credit-Protection offering in the US?”

Answer:

I have been a victim, and so I have done my research. Identity theft can happen to ANYONE, ANYWHERE, ANYTIME. It is the only crime that is growing at an alarming rate.

That said, I want to tell you that identity theft is not a matter of IF, but WHEN.

Please note that Lifelock has slick advertising. They are the not the original lifelock that once existed. They have been sold to different companies many times, and the only thing they have going for them right now is that they have slick marketing campaigns because they are desperate for sales.

One more thing you should know about LifeLock is that they were in deep trouble for giving money to Equifax for their “free credit monitoring” so they were both in cahoots. Not good at all.

And as you may know, Equifax was actually hacked TWICE last year in 2017. 145.5 million Americans with their sensitive information all stolen. It is probably in the hands of people in the black market, and we will never know. Scary isn’t it?

Because I have been a victim, I can say that best protection for your money I have seen hands down (and have had an AMAZING experience with is IDShield (a service provided by Kroll Inc). If you look up Kroll Inc, you will see that they are not a joke. They are a huge company with offices in other countries and they specialize in cyber security, identity theft protection, and risk management. I also forgot to mention that I actually use the service.

Like I said, Kroll Inc is the only company out there through IDShield where they provided me a licensed private investigator to handle things for me. I didn’t have to much other than signing a limited power of attorney sheet. So not all identity theft companies are created equal.

Also, what I love is the fact that I got assigned a licensed private investigator, not a customer service rep. My licensed investigator named John, calls me from time to time to check up on things, and I also get alerted through the app. So basically not only is John monitoring my information online and offline, but he is also proactively fixing any issues that may come up before it gets out of control. Peace of mind, so I can sleep at night!

See, most people think identity theft has to do with their credit score and bank information, but it is so much more than that. Someone using your information can go out and apply for a job, and then all of a sudden the IRS is coming after you for back taxes that you owe. Or someone can buy a car or home in your name using your information.

If you see the picture below, identity theft that is financial related (with your bank information, credit / debit cards, credit score, only makes up 28% of the crime. And you are doing yourself more harm than good by freezing your credit.
A$A$A
Now that Equifax have proved that Experian are not the only dumb asses looking after our crucial information I see no reason to think any of the three major credit checkers can look after our information safely. I think we have to presume, and act as though all our information is already out there on the dark web.

Meanwhile these hack jobs seem to provide the victim company with money for old rope. After the T Mobile fiasco (the second time it had happened too), Experian set up some compensatory system whereby they and whoever else they could rope in would keep an eye on any activity on our accounts. Well whoopee doo. Who is paying for that? Did they just give themselves and their competitors a job?

The only one who wouldn't help Experian monitor my accounts was Equifax! Well thank goodness for that or my details would have been released onto the dark web for a second time!

I am staggered at the incompetence. The sheer, shoddy lack of concern for security, which is a prime aspect of their business!! I hope, when the class actions eventually catch up with them, that they are suitably pilloried and financially savaged.

I'm expecting a letter any day wondering if I'd like to sign up for an extra bolt to put on the stable door now the horse has gone.
A$A$A
I don’t suggest any paid services. Rather sign up for Credit Karma (Equifax and TransUnion report), and possibly Free Credit Score dot com for Experian, and monitor your credit monthly. If you see any inquiries that look unusual, or an account is opened in your name, you can file an identity theft report w/ police immediately, and you’ll receive a free credit freeze as well. You also won’t be responsible for accounts opened fraudulently in your name, as long as you contact authorities, credit bureaus etc, very soon after you find out.

In our experience, services like Life Lock etc, are not worthwhile, because they don’t do much that you can’t get for free right now.
A$A$A
The best credit protection service currently offered to my knowledge is Lifelock.

The cheapest way is to have your social security number frozen by the 3 major credit bureaus.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
How can you protect yourself from someone else using your credit card?
A$A$A
Don’t lose your credit cards. Know where they are at all times.

Set up alerts for your credit card (most cards provide an automated alert service for various security triggers, like Card Not Present transactions, balance alerts, foreign charges, etc.).

Check your credit card statements regularly, as soon as they are available, or log into your account regularly and check activity.

Consider a credit monitoring service, though it not absolutely necessary if you followed advice 1–3 above.

Avoid giving out additional cards to family members. It creates a greater exposure to risks.

If you are worried that someone is using your credit card and see unauthorized charge activity, dispute charges as soon as possible, and have your account changed and card replaced.
A$A$A
Monitor your account daily. Spend 2 minutes each day looking at all the transactions on your card, and if you see something suspicious, investigate

Leverage your bank’s fraud monitoring services. They will notify you if unusual transactions are occurring on your account

Sign up for a paid credit-monitoring service, like Identity Theft Protection - Avoid ID & Credit Fraud | LifeLock
A$A$A
-Don’t use it on unsafe websites like those not having the “https” on the left side.

-Monitor account activity

-Don’t have too many credit cards (since it gets difficult to monitor them all)
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What's the best course of action to protect your data and identity if you were affected by the Equifax breach in Sep 2017?
A$A$A
Fantastic question. A few things I would suggest:

1.Sign up with a free credit monitoring service that offers Equifax (and other) credit reports. Free Credit Score & Free Credit Reports With Monitoring is a great option, as you’ll receive your TransUnion and Equifax reports for free. Get Your FICO® Score: No Credit Card Needed. is also excellent, receive your free Experian report. If you like, you can also use a paid service like myFico.com, where you get all 3 reports in one place.

2. Check your credit reports once per month (each open account typically updates once per month), and make sure that nothing appears unusual. By unusual I mean any new accounts, or balances on an existing account which look abnormal. It is possible to use your information to gain control of existing accounts, as well as open new ones, that’s why I mention this.

3. If you notice anything unusual, especially an account opened in your name that is not yours, you will want to file a report with your local police department, explaining that you believe you’ve been a victim of identity theft.

4. After that, you’ll also want to contact the credit bureaus, and provide the police reports, and request an extended fraud alert (goes for up to 7 years). This will make it more difficult for anyone to apply for credit using your name or information, and offers greater protection. You’ll still want to continue monitoring your credit during this time.

5. Also send this report to the company who opened the account. Let them know the account is fraudulent, and not your responsibility legally, since you are a victim of identity theft.

6. If anything unusual appears on your credit in the coming years, regardless, dispute it with credit bureaus, and provide proof of your being a victim of identity theft.

Please note that steps 3–6 are only if you see accounts that are unusual or have reason to believe you are a victim of identity theft. Otherwise, just follow steps 1 and 2, consistently.
A$A$A
First, I think it’s important to understand the severity of the Equifax data breach:

Over 140 million U.S. consumers were impacted. If you’ve ever applied for a loan, opened a credit card, or rented an apartment, it’s likely a safe assumption that your personal information has been compromised.

Compromised personal information includes: social security numbers, driver’s license numbers, credit card numbers, birthdates, and addresses.

The data brach occurred between May-July 2017. While the data breach was discovered on July 29, the public was not informed until 6 weeks later.

While Equifax has provided a tool to determine if your information has been compromised, there have been reports that using this service would waive your right to participate in a class action lawsuit. However, it’s worth noting that on September 12, 2017, NY Attorney General Eric Schneiderman tweeted that using the service would not waive a consumer’s ability to participate in a class-action lawsuit.

View image on Twitter

Eric Schneiderman

✔

@AGSchneiderman

#BREAKING: After conversations w/ my office, #Equifax has now made it explicitly clear—no one will waive their right to join a class action.

12:53 AM - Sep 13, 2017

4,647

2,861 people are talking about this

Twitter Ads info and privacy

So, what’s the best course of action to protect your data and identity? In addition to getting a free copy of your credit report, the best course of action you can take is to place a freeze on your credit. A few things to note about freezing your credit:

A credit freeze does not impact your credit score. It simply restricts access to your credit.

You can lift a credit freeze at any time. If a company needs access to your credit file (say, if you’re opening a credit card or mortgage), you can temporarily lift your credit freeze.

There is a minimal cost associated with freezing your credit. Costs vary by state, and you can find more information here. You’ll have to freeze your credit with all 3 bureaus, and the cost is about $5-$10 each. There’s also an additional $5-$10 cost for each lift you perform.

In my opinion, it’s better to be proactive than reactive. Apparently lots of people have been trying to freeze their credit recently because TransUnion reports they are “experiencing extremely high volume and there may be delays” with processing credit freezes.
A$A$A
Several years ago I received an early-morning call from a bank in Georgia asking whether I had applied for a Platinum MasterCard. I had not, and told the bank so. The banker then asked whether he could safely assume that I had also not applied for a mortgage through a company that specialized in mobile home loans. “Uhm. That would be a safe assumption,” I said.

The call was not entirely unexpected. Several months previously a mortgage broker who had helped me refinance my house. His office had been broken into. The thieves took one thing: their server. I knew then that the other shoe would eventually fall.

I’ll spare you the details, but you can read more at the Federal Trade Commission site: Your Source for a Truly Free Credit Report? AnnualCreditReport.com. I filed a police report that I had been a victim of identity theft and was given a report number. I then opened accounts with each of the three major reporting agencies and pulled free reports. I turned down the “added features” like monitoring and offers to keep me posted on my FICA score. I don’t care what the number is. I know it’s good. Being a bona-fide victim of identity theft, I placed a security freeze on my credit. It created an extra step in a few credit transactions. The lender had to call me before releasing my data. It seems like that should happen anyway. But I guess I’m old-fashioned.

In the course of getting my credit reports, I opened accounts with the three agencies. I registered my email with a unique email address for each under my personal domain, e.g. “equifax@<mydomain.com>” since any address to <mydomain.com> comes directly to me. A couple of years ago, I noticed that I was getting spam to the Equifax address. I’ve never used that address for any purposed except for correspondence with Equifax, and have never disclosed it anywhere else. It was apparent to me that Equifax a) did not treat my email address as confidential data, b) was a victim of an inside attacker who was collecting email addresses and selling them to spammers, or c) they had been compromised in some other way. My guess is that the hack of Equifax has either been going on for a long time, or that the latest one is just one of several.

I plan to reinstate my security freeze. I have no interest in taking Equifax up on its monitoring offer. If it were up to me, they would not have access to my data since they have demonstrated that they can’t be trusted with it.
A$A$A
I am rue to do this, much less advise this, but given the gravity of the situation, I have placed a credit freeze on all three of bureaus.

Frankly, if Equifax cannot keep my information secure, I am not about to provide my personal information to sites that offer free credit and free scores. I have never forgotten what Robert Heinlein wrote in 1966: TANSTAFFL.

The downside is having to remove the freeze whenever you wish to apply for new credit, obtain insurance or in some cases get a new job. Another downside is having to pay to release the freeze for a specific purpose or to have it removed. And there are the new PIN numbers to keep safe. Aaarg.

It is actually rather easy to set up a freeze on your credit files with the three bureaus. I do not think this can be said for the “free” credit report/free credit score sites. Frankly, I don’t think you can do anything to protect your information once it is provided to the “free” service provider.

Equifax Freeze Link

TransUnion Credit Freeze

Experian Credit Freeze

Success!
A$A$A
Here is the best course of action to take:

Identity theft is like cancer: It can come back to haunt you, and if it is caught on time something can be done about it.

You absolutely need identity theft protection insurance which offers not only monitoring but restoration. And it is more affordable than you think!

A credit freeze hurts you more than anything, because than banks and financial institutions cannot check your credit.

Here is my source
A$A$A
If you go to trustedid, Experian has arranged for them to determine if you have been compromised. From there follow the other suggestions here.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
Identity Theft: Should i opt for credit monitoring service?
A$A$A
These services give you someone that has your back when dealing with the issue of having your credit stolen. The process of getting your identity back can be a tough one. You can go it alone, and many people do just fine by themselves. If you're not proficient in these matters you might find it better to have a partner.

Try Identity Theft Protection - Identity Guard
A$A$A
Not really.

While fraud blocks on your credit reports might not be bad, most credit monitoring services charge a great deal and offer very little in return. It would be wiser to simply check your own credit reports annually than to pay a service a great deal of money to do this for you.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
Which credit monitoring service is most reliable and trustworthy?
A$A$A
I would advise a little online research before committing to a credit monitoring service. Robert is correct, that they all at their most basic level provide the same function..but there are differences. They all have their own differeent bells and whistles and they all have different price points. McAfee has a good product but so do many others: Trend Micro, ProtectMyID, CSIdentity, InfoArmor and many others offer products that are comparable and maybe even preferrable depending on what your individual needs are.  My recommendation is to read some consumer reviews...sites like this one... http://www.fightidentitytheft.co... offer comparative analysis...i would visit sites like this until I had found the service that best fit me and my needs.
A$A$A
IMHO, the pay subscription services are best for the corporations which own them and the executives marketing them.

Review your credit reports on an annual basis at no-cost to you via the official site: www.annualcreditreport.com.

For the least cost, in most cases, you can freeze access to your reports until you authorize access or lift the freeze(s). The costs vary by state and bureau. For example, in CO it costs nothing to freeze and lift the freeze with Exeprian.

Success!
A$A$A
Like the others have said, each company has their own bells and whistles. Watch out for any that claim they can give you 100% protection from identity theft because that is just not true. What they can do is monitor your credit and alert you to attempts to open lines of credit in your name. If the attempts are fraudulent then you can stop it quickly. This works out well because you can stop the ID thief before it gets out of hand.

Personally, I keep this on me at all times because I have had it happen to me before it was considered a crime. Now, I have the service and they stop the thief or new theives each time it starts up again and it is much easier to squash. Now it only takes a few minutes to squash instead of months. So keeping    Identity Theft Protection - Identity Guard on my family is well worth the money just because all the time it saves me and the freedom of mind of not having to worry about when the next attack will be.
A$A$A
Consumer identity theft protection at

its most basic is protecting the consumer from new account fraud and

alerting them to their data being compromised. Additional measures

involve fraud resolution agents that fix/restore a consumer identity.

McAfee Identity Protection leads this space here: http://www.counteridentitytheft....
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
Credit report vs credit monitoring. Is there a difference between these two terms?
A$A$A
A Credit Report is the report about your credit issued by a credit reporting agency. The credit report is requested by lenders and others interested in your credit history. You can obtain a free copy of the information used in your credit report (not the report itself) at Experian.com.

Credit Monitoring is a service that monitors your credit report for inquiries and changes. You are notified if, for example, an inquiry is made as part of a loan application. This can be useful, both for being aware of your credit status, or for detecting possible fraud attempts. Usually, a person will pay for this service, which you can do for free by frequently reviewing your credit information (see above). Credit monitoring may also monitor your account numbers to see if they are involved in known data breaches. LastPass lets you do this yourself for free using their app.

Identity Theft Protection is often used in conjunction with credit monitoring. It is essentially an insurance contract to mitigate financial damage and hassle from credit and identity fraud.

Credit Restoration is a a service that purports to repair a bad credit history. they charge a fee for sending protest letters to creditors and credit agencies (which is something you can do yourself for free). Other shenanigans included issuing you a token loan, getting it paid back, and reporting “paid in full” to the credit agency.
A$A$A
Credit monitoring can be particularly helpful for people who have lower credit scores and are working on improving them. Credit monitoring can also be useful for those interested in a service that monitors changes to one or more of their credit reports, especially when there are credit inquiries related to applications for a new credit card account or loan.

In the another way Credit Report includes information about your past and existing credit agreements, such as credit card accounts, mortgages, and student loans, and lists inquiries about your credit history. It outlines how much you owe creditors, how long each account has been open, and how consistently you make on-time payments. Credit reports also list related public records, such as collections or bankruptcy filings.

This is the differences of Credit monitoring and Credit Report but both are related to credit report monitoring service.
A$A$A
A credit report is a snapshot of what your credit looks like a that moment, while credit monitoring is watching the trend of your credit overtime and looking for things that might raise a red flag.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What do we do, now that everyone's personally identifiable information has been hacked many times over? Pay for a protection service offered by a company that lost the data in the first place?
A$A$A
I would not pay for some pointless credit monitoring or identity theft service. Simply locking your credit report to block inquires will a prevent a majority of identity theft. Most creditors will not open a line of credit if they can not access your credit report. The sad reality is that the consumer has very little control over how our data is used.

My hope is this will lead to legislation that enacts minimum standards and civil / criminal penalties on companies that mishandle personal data.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
For identity-theft protection, which company offers the best services?
A$A$A
IdentityForce is the one of the best identity theft protection company. It offers the best services.

What is Identity Theft?

Identity theft is a crime in which an imposter obtains key pieces of personal information, such as Social Security or driver’s license numbers, Tax IDs in order to represent someone else.

The information can be used to obtain credit, merchandise, and services in the name of the victim, or to provide the thief with false credentials.

In addition to running up debt, an imposter might provide false identification to police, creating a criminal record or leaving outstanding arrest warrants for the person whose identity has been stolen.

Identity theft is not new, but the popularity of the Internet, online shopping, credit and bank cards, and use of social media have made it one of the fastest-growing crimes in the U.S., with more than 11 million victims last year alone.

That’s 1 out of every 4 adults, averaging losses of $3,500 per person, with each spending over 330 hours restoring their identity.

Watch Video:

How to Recover From Identity Theft ?

Why do you need identity theft protection?

The world we live in today, you are the prey and anything you own can be stolen by anyone. One of the easiest things that someone can rob you of is your identity. Let us look at some of the reasons why identity protection is vital.

Identity theft can lead to financial ruin within minutes leading to the devastation of your financial life forever.

Your risk of identity theft grows as technology and internet activity grows. For peace of mind, let the experts protect you.

Your identity can be accessed by any computer from anywhere in the world.

Your risk increases every time you use your credit card, give out your social security number or shop online.

Identity theft is the leading consumer complaint and the fastest growing crime in America.

Read:

How to Reduce Risk for Identity Theft ?

Features of IdentityForce

Around the clock identity theft monitoring. Your accounts are protected 24/7 and any attempt at theft is thwarted immediately.

Monitoring and alerting you anytime changes or activities take place and your Social Security Number is used.

Monitoring the criminal websites for illegal exchange of personal information.

Monitoring changes of address submitted through the postal services.

Monitoring and informing you of any loans taken in your name.

Providing a remedy if your identity is stolen.

Reimbursement of up to $1 million out-of-pocket expenses.

The great thing about IdentityForce is that you can be given an opportunity to try out the services for 30 days free and without any obligation. So if you are hesitant to commit yourself or you have a few options to choose from, you can put the service to the test and see how it works for you.

General Information

BBB Rating: A+

Identity Theft Insurance: Up to $1 million

Monthly Price:  $14.95 – $19.95

Types of Monitoring: Personal, Family, Business

Comprehensive Identity Protection: Credit Monitoring, Internet Scanning, Legal Protection, and Analytical System

Complete Identity Recovery Services: Financial, Medical, Tax, and Criminal

Valuable Insurance Quality: $1 Million amount through AIG (if case is reported within 90 days)

Credit Monitoring: Available through Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion

Read:

Don’t Use Identity Force Before Reading This Review !
A$A$A
Here is the thing.

I get asked this question a lot: “which company offers the best protection?”

You want to look for a company that:

-Offers comprehensive protection (online and offline)

-A company that protects your social security, medical information, social media accounts, passports, driver license, credit cards, bank accounts, notifies you if you live near a sex offender

-A company that offers a private licensed investigator that will watch your back, and if something happens, do work on your behalf so that you can focus on your life instead of your personal problems dealing with identity theft alone

-A company that has been in the game for a while (unlike Lifelock , who is still a big joke in the cyber security world right now).

Remember that you need Monitoring AND Restoration. IDShield is the only company out there that is the mots affordable option, and the only one out there that offers MORE benefits for less.

There is a reason they have more than 1.5 million+ members across North America.

Kroll Inc (through which IDShield is provided, has been doing this long before the competitors jumped on to the scene since 2006, long before anyone knew what identity theft was).

I would recommend you check out this website to get a feel for what I am talking about, that highlights more of what I pointed out.
A$A$A
I think the best identity theft protection services are offered by Shufti Pro (Quick & Secure Digital Verification in Real Time - Shufti Pro). It is a SaaS that employs artificial and human intelligence to authenticate the identity of a user through quick, real-time verification. Shufti Pro also performs ID check online to check the user’s government-issues documents (ID card, passport, driving licence and credit/debit cards) for duplicity.

It is highly accurate, performs quality services in the most affordable cost, and grants complete customization to fit to clients’ needs. Head over to their website for more information on identity theft prevention, and company’s contact details. :)

(Disclaimer: I'm an employee at Shufti Pro and hence, closely familiar with its workings. I highly recommend the app, not because of my affiliation with it, but because of its accuracy, efficiency and prowess.)
A$A$A
I really think there are two questions here. What should I do to prevent identity theft and what should I do if I'm an identity theft victim. The answer to the first question is to contact companies such as Lifelock, Identity Guard and others. These are trusted companies with proven records. The answer to the second question is a bit complicated. Everyone who's had their identity stolen has the right to know who stole it and what information was taken. The best way to find this out is to contact a private investigator. There are thousands of investigators across the country. Some specialize in certain areas; business, personal, or familial investigations. A great company to use is New York Private Investigators. This company specializes in the New York City/North New Jersey market. Their investigations include cases about domestic partners, loss and theft, identity theft, and many other areas. If you would like some tips on reducing your risk of identity theft, read 4 Tips for Reducing Your Risk of Identity Theft - Peye007

If you're the victim of identity theft, contact New York Private Investigators at Private Investigator & Detective in NYC.
A$A$A
Another company you might want to consider is    http://www.identityguard.com/

It is important to remember, NO company can prevent ID theft. The best any company can do is alert you to ID theft as soon as it happens. What I personally like about ID guard, is it will help you monitor you children as well. Children are at risk of ID theft as well.

Unfortunately, kids IDs are being stolen and no one realizes this until they apply for work or even college. Then they are denied much need government loans.

Additionally, ID Guard will help you monitor your credit and give you an idea of your credit score. This is important if you are like millions of other trying to monitor your credit rating.
A$A$A
Before paying for Identity Theft Protection services. Call your insurance agent (home or auto) and financial institution. You might already have Identity theft protection  services through your financial institution or major insurance companies  (home, auto, life). These services are provided by Identity Theft 911  the premier provider of personal-touch identity management solutions and  identity theft recovery services covering more than 45 million people.  The service provided free to you by your insurance or financial  institution includes step by step assistance to resolve such an issue  including paperwork and phone calls. To find out if you already have  coverage call your financial institution or insurance agent who can  connect you with the Identity Theft 911 Resolution Center.

Source(s):        

Page on Idt911
A$A$A
It depends on what exactly you want to have monitored and done for you, and how much you want to take upon yourself. For example, a lot of services offer anti-phishing and junk mailing list address removal as part of their offerings. From this review of 7 companies (http://hubpages.com/hub/Best-Ide...) it seems the one thing they have in common is setting up quarterly-renewable fraud alerts with the 3 main credit bureaus that Ashish mentioned.

The other thing many offer is insurance, although exactly what costs the insurance covers in the case of fraud is probably buried in the fine print.
A$A$A
Another company to look at is "https://secure.IDfraudProtect.com". IDfraudProtect is a database of identities that have been stolen and purchased by online fraudsters. The IDfraudProtect database is being constantly updated as new  identities are sold on the internet and contains in excess of 150 million people worldwide who have had their personal information compromised by criminals. More than fifty million of these are in the US alone. This database is unique: our world-wide network of covert intelligence sources and forensic specialists gather information not available anywhere else.
A$A$A
Before shopping for an identity-theft protection service or product, I'd recommend taking some proactive steps that don't involve any costs.

You can find some useful tips here: How to Prevent Identity Theft in 20 Essential Steps
A$A$A
Yes the two ones you mention garner most attention due to their ad campaigns, but each of the credit bureau's offer their own services as well - Experian, TransUnion and Equifax.

However I am personally not convinced if the monthly fee is worth the trouble, make sure you check your credit report once a year, its your right to get one free report a year - this site is set up by the 3 credit bureaus.

https://www.annualcreditreport.com/

Beware of all the sites trying to sell you credit reports - federal law gives  you the right to get one free report a year.
A$A$A
Consumer identity theft protection at

its most basic is protecting the consumer from new account fraud and

alerting them to their data being compromised. Additional measures

involve fraud resolution agents that fix/restore a consumer identity.

McAfee Identity Protection leads this space here: http://www.counteridentitytheft....
A$A$A
This site shows a grid of what each company offers - its an easy comparison to look at.

Identity Theft Protection Services Review 2014 | Best Identity Protection  - TopTenREVIEWS
E$E$E

