Q$Q$Q
What is the authentication process Facebook uses to verify pages and profiles?
A$A$A
I originally answered this on When does a Facebook Page show up the verification option in the Settings?

There are two types of Facebook Page Verification.

Blue tick : This is for famous people like sportsperson, journalist, politicians, actors.

Grey tick : This is for Facebook pages of Local businesses.

Currently Facebook don’t accepts requests to get Blue tick, and it also stopped accepting requests to verify Local business pages (in India).

On 19th June, Facebook removed Grey tick from all pages in India. But verified few pages again after a week. Unfortunately my own page failed to get verify again, but my clients got that grey tick again.

So your page must be under Local Business category. Also it should be in good standing and old enough. and most importantly, your business should be listed in Publicly Local listing.

Here is the solution.

It’s very easy to get listed on Publicly Local listing. That’s Google.

Go to Google My Business. Add your location. Now Google have to verify your Business, so they will send you a code in 12 days via Post. You’ve to verify your business by that code.

Now after verifying your business pray that Facebook will automatically verify your business.
A$A$A
Greetings, I've written all about this and provided helpful video tutorials to walk you through how to submit your page for verification. Local businesses can verify themselves with a grey checkmark here. How to Verify Your Local Business Page on Facebook - 
A$A$A
It doesn't. It is an on your honor kind of thing. If a dispute arises  then you can report someone's improper use of your business' name.
A$A$A
How to Facebook page verified
A$A$A
Facebook Staff is calling the management of the given celebrity to verify the pages. There is no way to push them into verifying your profile.
A$A$A
no info
A$A$A
no info
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What do some Quora users do wrong (on Quora)?
A$A$A
They forget this is a question and answer platform for learning and sharing and instead treat this as an arena for competing and parading their writing skills or their knowledge.

They are constantly seeking attention. Not just seeking, but literally craving. They want to be noticed. They want to be considered ‘great’ writers. They want upvotes. They want views.

Instead of focusing on being original, they collect interesting material from other sources and post it as an answer to a question that conveniently popped up, or look for material on the web and compile it to present an answer here that is not really their own.

They obsess over the upvotes and views that others get and comment publicly on that instead of focusing attention on the content.

Some display a herd mentality. They see who the writer is before deciding whether to read the answer or not. If the writer’s name is not familiar, they see how many upvotes the answer has got before deciding to read it.

They barter upvotes. They offer to follow another in return for the courtesy of being followed. They ask for questions to be asked by another so that they can post something they wrote as an answer to a question. They don’t consider posting this in the Quora blog, as they feel questions and answers get viewed while blog posts are usually ignored, unless the writer is famous.

They post comments in public that should have been sent as private messages.

They harass writers they don’t like by trolling the writer instead of just muting and unfollowing the writer. They sometimes form downvoting cliques to force a collapse of an answer, even if temporarily.

They post answers as comments instead of posting their own answer.

They send private messages to the writer when there was no reason for privacy and the content could well have been public. They are shy to post in public but want the writer to know their thoughts and so send it as a private message and also expect a popular writer to reply to their individual message and sometimes feel offended when there is no reply.

They pester popular writers by repeatedly sending links to their answers and asking for upvotes, or for reviews and comments or suggestions. They hope to get some attention by climbing on the shoulders of a writer who has more visibility. Some writers often cooperate at the risk of receiving even more such messages from the same person till it sometimes becomes a nuisance.

They send unnecessary private messages which basically say nothing important but merely clog the message box of their recipient. Typically these are single word messages like “Hi” or “Hello”.

They make a public display of their jealousy by harsh comments on the writer instead of criticizing the content. This happens in particular when the writer has got many more views and upvotes for the answer than for the same answer written by the jealous commenter.

They forget the BNBR rule. They fail to simply ignore what they don’t like, mute a writer or block him or unfollow him. Instead they abuse him or make strong personal remarks against him.

They forget Quora is just one among thousands of web sites and set too much store by fame and popularity on this forum and hanker for it and exhibit frustration when they don’t get it by criticizing the forum instead of doing what it takes to be successful here.

They give up too easily when they fail to make it big here. They don’t have the patience to wait for recognition, (assuming they deserve it) and soon leave when they fail to get noticed. They don’t realize that with each passing month thousands of more members are getting added, and getting this recognition and getting noticed is only going to get more and more difficult.

They take collapses of their answers too seriously. Some behave like the sky has fallen on them and feel that once an answer has collected more than the average number of views and upvotes, they should be beyond collapse! A collapse can happen to any one (including popular writers) and the only reasonable thing to do is to address the reason and submit an appeal and then simply forget about it if there is no response.

Some readers feel a sense of entitlement here. Once their follower count has crossed a number that they feel is impressive and “boastworthy”, they feel they are doing Quora a favor by being here and posting answers. When Quora pricks their ego bubble and brings them down to earth sometimes with a BNBR warning or a collapse, they react like petulant kids and leave in a huff. They probably don’t realize that Quora has millions of members (increasing every day), and each of us is just a speck of dust in the overall scheme of things. Titans here have been shown the door. Let us all keep our egos in check.

They forget that Quorans are not necessarily competent judges of the quality of writing and give too much importance to approval from other Quorans instead of treating upvotes merely as indicators of pleasure, amusement, satisfaction at having read and views as indicators of visibility and circulation and nothing more.

They forget that Quora selects its Top Writers annually not based on views, upvotes and followers alone, (may be not based on these at all) but based on pure merit as judged by their own internal panel of members who are fully qualified to do so.

Lastly: Some spend too much time on Quora when they have more useful and better things to do.

—
A$A$A
People complain about questions/answers related to India getting popped up in their feed

People complain about questions/answers related to atheism getting popped up in their feed

People complain about  questions/answers related to Bay Area getting popped up in their feed

Whats the real problem here? Why so many people complain about reduced feed quality?

Real answer is:

Not mentioning the primary topic after asking some new question.

This results is drastic reduction in quality of feed. It may so happen that I might be following a person because I love his/her science related answer but I have no interest in answers which he/she gives related to parenting, USA, dating advice, religion, India etc.



No primary topic mentioned in any one of the above question. Now I have no interest in rap music or parenting advice etc but questions/answers related to these keep popping in my feed.

Now if I click on remove from feed, I get this.





I can only mute that specific question now. Thats it. Thats the only option I have.

I provide primary topic to at least 100 questions a day, just because I can block the whole topic later

I sincerely request all quora users, PLEASE PROVIDE PRIMARY TOPIC to the questions(even if they are not asked by you). It will result in overall feed improvement

Edit:

I specially request quora's power users like Joshua Engel, Balaji Viswanathan,Xu Beixi,Leonard Kim, Ben Fraser,Yishan Wong,Robert Frost,Jon Davis,Garrick Saito,David Cole,Paul Denlinger,Melissa Hoy,User,Andy Lee Chaisiri,Oliver Emberton,Dan Holliday, Kai Peter Chang, Joel V Benjamin, Joel Postman, Jessica Su, Deepak Mehta,Christopher VanLang, Miguel Valdespino,Judith Meyer,Betsy Megas,Dan Knight,Navin Kabra,Antariksh Bothale,User,Jeremy Miles,Jay Wacker,Craig Montuori, Stephanie Vardavas,Cyndi Perlman Fink,User,Nathan Ketsdever,Ethan Hein,Caroline Zelonka,Ian York,Bulat Bochkariov and many others to start this trend. Be the torchbearers.

Guys, just make sure any question you answer has a primary topic.If no primary topic is there, you provide it. It just takes 3 extra clicks. Answers of each one of you people go long way. If you people start doing this, feed quality of lot no. of people on quora will improve.

You people have made quora an awesome place. Now its upto you that it remains so

Further, if you people start this trend, I am sure others will follow you soon.

Edit #2

To make my point clear, I did an experiment with my quora feed



I later unmuted "Physics"



Edit #3

I did more experiments. This time with mutual following. Earlier Ben Fraser was not following me. But this time he was following me





I hope I have made my point clear
A$A$A
Trying to be smartasses.

There is a troll at work. He asks questions in which there is a horrible mess of

LaTeX

L

and none of those symbols are in coherence with each other. He then disturbs the mathematicians on Quora who have actual work to do. Alon Amit , Senia Sheydvasser , Alan Bustany , John Knight and several other mathematicians have repeatedly warned and reported the troll’s endless barrage of questions, yet new ones keep coming up.

I got this one today:

How does one evaluate

∫

dy

dx

9

∂

x,y

∫

?

It doesn’t take a degree in mathematics for you to understand that it is absolute hogwash!

Here’s more:

Based on the simple axiom

π=

∬

σ

2

σ

1

2ρ

r

2,

1

⏞

2−1

1

⏞

r=

σ

‴

(x)

⏟

Note:ρ=σ(1)

∂ρ

, how do we get the area of a circle?

What does this mean in layman's terms:

∭

℘

§

⊕

y

x

≀

ρ

1

∘

2

σ

⏞

∂

x

2

1

∘







∂

y

1

2

3

ρ

σ

‾

‾

‾

‾

√

π

?

How do I solve this equation:

|x|+1

⏞

Polynomial equation

=0

|

?

How do I solve for the integral of

∫0.99999999⋯<1

∫

?

How do I solve this math problem

∫

1

0

ℂdℝ

∫

?

How do I integrate V= π∫_0^3.6▒〖 (2cos^(-1) (2/(2+y)) dx〗?

What equation would satisfy the geometric series

πθρ℘

⏞

2πθρ℘

⏞

4πθρ℘

⏞

8πθρ℘

⏞

16πθρ℘







...

π

?

How do I complete this expression: \int_{Die}^{young} \frac{and}{leave} \sqrt[a]{Purelent} \frac{dy}{_________}

\int_{Die}^{young} \frac{and}{leave} \sqrt[a]{Purelent} \frac{dy}{_________}

?

(Da fuck this mean anyway?!)

….and more of these symbol salads!

We discovered one troll named Jamal Ashfour who had some pretty ‘interesting credentials’. He was banned. Today, I discovered a comment to one answer and let me tell you, the OP is not ready to learn.

I request everyone reading this to report any such question whenever you see them as they are honestly making a mockery of the hard work and effort mathematicians put into their success, and most importantly, the mission of Quora itself!

Down with the symbol salads!

Update: Bing, he just posted this :How does one evaluate

∫

dy

dx

π

∂

x,y

∫

?

This is getting too out of hand!
A$A$A
A medicinal drug is being used for recreational purposes.

Hear me out.

Imagine that you are a doctor, who uses a particular drug to treat patients. At this point, the drug is used as its inventors envisioned it to be, to help the community.

Now imagine that the drug gets leaked, and unqualified people start using it just to get high. It doesn’t stop there, imagine that these people are all you can see around you, drowning out the patients that actually need help.

As you might have guessed, the drug in question here is Quora.

Too many people are using it as means to forward their own agenda, which mainly consists of directing undue attention to themselves.

Now obviously we can’t take this drug back from the people, so the only solution is hitting at them with sarcastic answers.

But jokes aside, don’t let the background noise deter you from helping the real patients. Actively downvote these questions. Not only will it disappear from your feed, it will also send a silent message to these druggies!

Cheers!
A$A$A
I would like to present you two different scenarios.

Question:What is the most unexpected thing happened to you today?

User 1: Writes a really good and relevant answer. Meagre appreciation from the fraternity.

Kanwal Anuvind: I get an extra cookie in my cookie pack. “Oh Kanwal gets an extra cookie. That’s really unexpected”. Quorans go crazy. Huge appreciation.

I hope you understand. Don’t get carried away by the profile.

Read.Analyse.Appreciate.

P.S: I am neither User1 nor Kanwal.

No offence.

Peace!!

Edit: Now that Kan is reported for plagiarism, I hope people will not blindly go with the profile.
A$A$A
Here goes the story

You join Quora and starts reading to improve your communication as well as writing.

You start writing an answer , unfortunately you won’t get any upvotes.

Meanwhile you see some quoran writing sarcastic answer (or) relationship advice and getting lot of upvotes,views and followers.

You get depressed as you were handcuffed by good content still no reward.

Between you were hypnotized by this button.

You change from content to conundrum and started writing the parody of some famous answers.

You get upvotes, followers but remember they are following you just because you make them laugh and sarcasm is very far away from knowledge, when your knowledge transformed to sarcasm your motto of entering into quora will be becomes diminished and you will become slave of that button.

Quora - Your best source for Knowledge (Not Sarcasm)

So, never forget for what you came for /

Be Deepika not Katrina.

Keep Writing (But good content).

AT
A$A$A
On Quora, people generally try to answer questions when:

They are experts of the that subject matter

They want to share their opinion and express views

For pure writing pleasure.

And then there are a few like these.

This is the advice you want to give to a 19 year old?

There are a lot of answers out there on Quora, which I feel are quite harmful to a young and disturbed mind.

Yes, times have changed, our thought processes have changed, but seriously, in no civilized society are such thoughts accepted.

Also, questions like these!

I love attention!

But, come on, not like this.

There is a message option on Quora and my Facebook Page. I will tell you step by step, the entire wooing process!

Let us not degrade Quora by pathetic answers and questions.

Cheers!
A$A$A
Plagiarizing content.

I don’t understand what kick some users get out of blindly copying content from news articles and blogs on the internet and masquerading the answer as their own.

Are they that desperate to get views and upvotes?

Are they that desperate to feel relevant on an intellectual platform that they ironically post unoriginal content?

One of the worst cases I’ve seen is a guy with 276 answers written over a 5 month period. His bio reads,

PHARMA,BUSINESS LIFESTYLE EXPERT,Cosmetologist,health & medicine,philosopher

RELATIONSHIP AND MARRIAGE CONSULTANT, #PHARMACIST, #Emergency #medicine, #philosopher, #Business #administration and #management. #Journalist, #lifestyle #consultant, #Medical consultant, #CHEMIST, #ASTHETIST,#Cosmetology

My, oh my, what a learned fellow he is.

Nearly all his answers are plagiarized! I cannot fathom what must be going through such people’s minds to spend this much time industriously ruining their own reputation.

P.S.: If you have come across such people yourself, report their answers like this:

1. Click the 3 dots at the bottom of the answer and choose ‘Report’.

2. Select ‘Plagiarism’ from the list of options. You can mention the original source as well in the optional explanatory section.

3. If you feel they’ve violated the policy too many times, I suggest you report their entire account by going to their profile and clicking ‘Report’.
A$A$A
I think one of the most common mistakes is that some of the new members (and, to a lesser extent, more established members) don't read (or can't/won't follow) instructions.

Add your answer.

There is only one thing that can go into this box: write your answer to the question being asked.  I'm not sure how much clearer Quora can make this.



I think some people think this is a forum, where they can have conversations or ask questions, using the answer box.

Don't put things like "Great answer.  Thanks." or "Why are you assuming X?" in the answer box.

Exhibit A:

Exhibit B:



Exhibit C:

If you wish to leave a comment or anything other than an answer, look for the link that says Comment and put it in this box.

I thank you.  We all do.
A$A$A
Ask questions which require a degree in psychoanalysis and some measure of extrasensory perception in order to answer:

“If a girl talks to me for a year and we meet and she blinks in my direction but then blocks me the next morning what does it mean?”

(Yeah hang on while I grab my crystal ball and read your future. Hint: it's about as bright as you are.)

Send cringe-worthy PMs to other writers.

“Hiiiiii”

“Hello u r hawt cn I date u”

“You have such nice eyes for a guy” (Men get these too. Just more rarely.)

“My wotsapp nor. 666666666 plis call I have sexy”

(You have sexy what? I hate incomplete sentences even more than I hate perverts.)

Some people do not answer the question at all…

“So I know I'm going off-topic but I'd like to tell you about my great-uncle Willie who died after he was hit in the head with a stale baguette………

…………and I know this has nothing to so with “What is the specific gravity of mercury?” But I hope you enjoyed this answer and if you did check out more!

Hopeless Case's answer to “Why are you an annoying writer?”

There is Naam To Suna Hi Hoga Syndrome ™. This means that your answer might be exactly the same as a popular person’s but chances are, you will be passed over while the answer with a known name attached will go to upvote heaven.

Publicly insult and deride an answer simply because you disagree with what is written.

“You suck. Seriously b**** do you have mush for brains or what?”

(Is saying “Excuse me but I feel that…” so hard?)

Many write without proofreading their answers. I myself have found many errors in my own which come from typing on my phone. Please proofread or get help from someone more fluent to edit your answer.

“I m the most capable 2 ansr dis qschn bcoz…”

(Hey Brooke Schwartz, get a Grammar Auror in here, it's serious…)
A$A$A
A few things that come to mind:

- Ask subjective questions and expect definite, objective answers

- Ask specific questions that could easily be answered via Google

- Answer subjectively when an objective, researched answer is expected

- Ask a question without checking if it's already been asked

- Repeat an answer that's already been given rather than upvote it

- Forget that other users don't all live in the same country and have the same references

Edit:

- Write an answer in the comment section of the question

- Post a comment as an answer
A$A$A
Wow, how about I answer first and look at the many other answers later.

Firstly, I can really only speak of some Quora users, not all.

If you wanted to list things that all Quora users did, it might include:

use a computer

join Quora

use their real names (well, mostly)

read Quora questions and answers.

That’s it really. I don’t imagine anyone who would answer on Quora would consider those to be “wrong” whereas someone outside Quora (say a partner or family member) might.

However, assuming the above list is acceptable there are some other things some Quora members do that may be seen as “wrong” by others.

The obvious ones are:

Ask a question that has the “expected” answer embedded within the question

Give an incorrect answer

Provide an answer that doesn’t address the question

Try to sell a product without contributing anything, either a genuine question or an honest answer

Use language in ways that deliberately and maliciously provokes or harms others

Respond to content that is deliberately intended to provoke them

Pretend an obvious troll is a genuine member of a group the member wishes to malign

Forget to attribute sources when answering a question with quotations from an external source

Downvote or report content on a whim rather than based on knowledge or evidence.
A$A$A
‘Thanking at last for for +XYZk’s upvotes’

I mean seriously, you are thanking to the people, thousands of Quorans because they upvoted your answers, but sorry to say, few would be there to come back to your answers and see your ‘Thankyou’.

I know that many here gets overwhelmed but emotions are need to be controlled. Somewhere the above phrase reveals it all- upvotes could be much more important than the answers.

Moreover, socializing the Quora from its users makes it too much annoying for many here (I am listed in between them too). I joined this amazing platform back in 2015 and it had changed a lot. Earlier, the users were solution oriented, practical, logical, not so much social.

I am aware that there are different people in the world with different opinions, and its sometimes better to mind our own business, I tried the same. I started downvoting the questions which I thought illogical (not the answers) and started disfollowing some famous Quorans too (I won’t name them though).

I could still see the same contents back by those same authors (as my other followers may upvote them which shows back in my feed), so I muted them. I thought that downvoting and playing with Quora algorithms would improve my feed, but its not at all working.

Its not any fault of Quora as the site, it shows whats people type here. Just slight request, be more moderate on the specific questions.

In the corner of this socializing world, there are still some users who write amazing, logical, and open-minded answers; but everyone here knows that who is respected more and upvotes shows it all.

And I am not alone, there were many other users who typed for the same, though indirectly. Someone should be the domino to show the world what we users are facing. I hope my message would reach to the popular Quora users too and they could make implementation for the same.
A$A$A
Confusing questions as statements without sufficient information in the question details.

I am making some random questions as examples here which are not necessarily great questions.

"Why should women have equal rights?"

"Why should you not kill/harm people?"

"Why is stealing bad?"

Most answers revolve around the following.

You are an a** for thinking women should not have equal rights.

You are an a** for thinking killing is OK.

You are an a** for thinking stealing is OK.

If question details doesn't indicate any such bias then why should answerer assume one?
A$A$A
Not bothering to read the question carefully and trying to answer with irrelevant details.

Not editing an answer when pointed out that it's not relevant. I did that once on my anonymous question when an answer was completely off the mark. The person requested me to message him so that he knows who he is talking to. I did that and repeated the same - Your answer doesn't answer my question. He blocked me without discussing. Unfortunately the answer was upvoted a lot because of him being a Top Writer (check below) and reporting it didn't make a difference.

Upvote Top Writers blindly and/or Joke Answers. Recently I have come across quite a few Joke Answers (even by Top Writers) and people just upvote them. I was more disappointed when seasoned users upvoted those answers instead of collapsing them. Like in this very question you have an answer like that where someone is trying to be witty. Usually it's not cool for questions where people seriously wish to learn or know about something.

Just adding an answer similar to a previous answer, just for the sake of it. If you're not adding more information - stop.

Adding irrelevant topics. Or worse, not adding relevant topics.

Not reporting! Joke answer, irrelevant details, stupidity - Report!



Going anonymous and venting out randomly because you are bored.
A$A$A
I've been a silent reader on quora for like three years. And lately, I've seen that the quality of questions and answers on this platform is degrading mainly because people want attention more than sharing knowledge and learning.

Here's the list of things that I feel some quora users are doing it wrong on this platform :

Bragging for upvotes. Some writers even write to upvote their answers no matter what the quality of answer is.

Misuse of edit section after the answers. It has become a trend now to use edit section after the answers to say that this is my first answer with 500 upvote. And they don't stop here. They'll update it again once they reach 1k mark. Can't understand why they do it. You'll definitely get upvotes if your content is worth it. Edit section was meant to update your answer with time and not the upvote count.

Downvoting answers just because you disagree with writer's views.

Writing answer to question like “What made you happy today?” if a famous quoran starts to follow you. I'm sure you'll find lot of such examples.

Asking questions like “Can I see a photo of you?”, “Can I see a photo of you and your significant other?”, “Is your profile picture a real one?”. And guess what people happily share their pictures. This seems a legalised way of stalking people.

Randomly upvoting answers without reading them because it is written by some famous quoran.

Asking some silly mathematical questions that even 2nd grade student can answer.

Need not to say plagiarism. Some writers shamelessly copy answers with efficiency of 100%.
A$A$A
People asking stupid questions like

How can i crack JEE Exam or Bank Exam in 10 days?

This is really a point to stop and think

You were roaming around ,doing parties and all from past year and as the exam came to your head, you decided to crack it in 10 days

These people are real shaktiman of India.

People are mad if they are preparing for the exam from past 2–3 years

They can do it in 10 days only
A$A$A
Topic Deletion.

I think the topic deletion has to be as one of the answer.



See the provided reason, "Personal". You don't have to delete a topic just because you don't like it. 

Please care to follow Why should topics be deleted? 

How do I use a topic? See - What are the policies and guidelines for selecting topics for a Quora question?
A$A$A
Pouring so much personal stuff and confessions. I do understand that confessing things will make us feel good. But we should always remeber quora is also a social platform. Not all profiles are real. Not all people are mature. Not all people follow you with good intentions.

Hate comments and disrespect : If you are disagreeing with someone for something, leave it and move on. Always respect other perspective and grow. Disagree gracefully!!

Forgetting the purpose : For questions regarding to maturity and good life decision, most quora users answer that “I quit using facebook and migrated to quora.” Wow, good decision but remember it is not a good decision if you are using your quora profile just like your facebook profile or dating site.
A$A$A
The only wrong I feel Quorans are doing is craving for fame.

They do the following stupid stuff to become famous instantly:

Write stuff involving tags to famous Quorans so that they can draw attention of famous quorans' followers and become popular.

Answering questions like “who is your favorite Quoran?” and asking questions like “What do you like about xyz Quoran?”

Faking their fan moment by posting screenshots of their chat with popular Quorans.

Turning this platform into Celebrity-Fan site by showcasing their excitement about meeting popular Quorans , texting with popular quorans, etc.

Every person is normal.

If a Quoran has 10k upvotes on his/her every answer , that's ok! You don't need to create a fuss .

PS- I'm not against any Quoran. I've just presented my feelings.
A$A$A
Since I don't know other Quora users well enough to mention what they do wrong, and you didn't define "wrong," so I'll just admit to a few of my wrongs.

I sometimes eat too much. I know it's wrong but I do it anyway.

I sometimes drink too much. Again, I know it's wrong but it's a fun wrong.

I occasionally talk when I should be listening. Bad habit.

I break the speed limit while driving and have cursed drivers who cut me off. Two wrongs there. It shouldn't feel right but it does.

For spite I've thought about blocking the one Top writer who blocked me two years ago and probably forgot about it. Imagine that. I probably won't though. But it's the wrong thought anyway, right?

And lastly, I throw beer cans in my neighbors yard so he'll see them and hopefully pick up the rest of his trash.
A$A$A
Some basic mistakes people make in comments due to which they get collapsed :-

Not starting the sentence with capital letter.

Not using punctuation marks.

Using too many punctuation marks together.

Ending the sentence with a smiley.

The right way to use smiley is to place them before punctuation marks.

Hope this helps, and people don't make these basic mistakes anymore and prevent their comments from getting collapsed.

Images Source :- Screenshots of comments on my answers taken from my phone.
A$A$A
Mixing their native language and English in answers, that too using English alphabets.

Few of them doesn't even bother to provide translation for them. I have seen a lot of Indian users writing Hindi in between English without considering there would be users who doesn't understand Hindi. I feel that it is okay to use other languages while quoting, but users should be careful enough to provide its english translation. It would also be great if they could avoid the usage of English alphabets while writing native languages. Language looks good in its own alphabets, and such usage would be appreciated if you provide us with correct translations along with it.
A$A$A
Mistake answers as a follow on from the question, in other words not know that this is a Q & A site.

I answered a question, a pretty horrid question to be honest, and I was chastened and chastised by many many Quora Users assuming I was the questioner. Heck, someone even answered the question by calling me out as a troll.

Obviously they did not read my answer to the end or they would know I was not the questioner.

I ended up disabling the comments due to the constant abuse that was being hurled at me even after I explicitly stated that I did not ask the question.

After I disabled comments I received many messages from other Quorans who say the same thing has happened to them.

How can such a large amount of people not know how to use the site? It is quite easy to navigate, no?

Penny Matangi's answer to I wanted a daughter, but ended up with a son, and now he's 7. Is it too late to put him into foster care?
A$A$A
Thanks for A2A.

What do some Quora users do wrong (on Quora)?

I think the answer Wiki covers the majority of Quora sins.

The ones that annoy me the most are:

6. Not adding all the relevant topics to questions;

15. Using anonymous feature to vent; and

25. Ask specific questions that can be googled (Ex height of Mt. Everest).

6 is probably the most confusing one. I received a question relating to the Christian Bible, and it was under the category of Law. This would mean a majority of Christians who don’t follow questions on “Law of the Land” would have missed out, and atheists who are only interested in “Law of the Land” would have ignored it.

15 usually also results in violation of BNBR, so I report them.

25 is the “give up” zone. I’m not even wasting my time to explain that I’ve passed on the question because, “I am not your search engine.” I just hit [Pass] and ignore.
A$A$A
First of All sorry if you don't agree with me

Before this I don't want to answer for this question but AT this time I really want to answer this question

The answer is relation with Banning of Kanwal Anuvind

From morning whenever I open quora to read some good stuff I came up with these only No matter what the question is, Almost all the answers is in relation with Kanwal

I don't think it will do any kinda value addition

It is also not seeming any beneficial to talk about him over here continously

IF HE DID WRONG THEN HE IS GETTING PUNISHMENT OF HIS DEEDS NOW

PLEASE WRITE SOME GOOD STUFF

THANKS AND REGARDS

PRINCE KUMAWAT
A$A$A
Answering questions related to:

First, Every answer is related to some Uncle or aunty suggesting them to have signed up for something superior. I'm an Indian student living in India and I think I'm living in some other nationality because None of them. Seriously, None of those instances have happened with me or my friends in our life. Many questions are actually correct but repetitive context is irritative.

Most stupid question on Quora. Most of them write answer for this question just to get some attention. Some are actually new but same answer is written almost 20+ times in just another phrase and format. Many of them aren't even hypocrisy they're just some fake news or exaggerated shit. I'm really fed up of those. Stop answering shit which can never solve. Example: mentality of other people who don't even know what Quora is, Mentality of your uncle and aunties.

This like a clear way of showing 'hey look, I need attention, upvotes and some followers. Now, I'll mention some popular Quorans and then they'll upvote and comment on it, I'll be famous, biiiiitch!'

99% answer feature how other telecom service provider failed and how YouTube views from India increased but they'll never mention how poor Indian creeps started messaging creepy texts to foreigners and different girls and a meme came up. I can't figure out why does this even show up in my feed even its downvoted and reported.

Some of them are really inspiring though.

This includes Mother and Father in place of parents. Again 80% of those are actually relative with me atleast. They're written in 2 page stories of some incident in hilarious way but see the actual context of the Question. That's not what about what your parents do. It's asked how the average of all those are raised. Again stop answering questions like these. Have some etiquettes in yourselves.

Again, every answer consists how Indian moms want flat and short hairs, clean shaven, etc. Don't write those points again and again. Etiquettes my people, etiquettes. Have some of those.

Now, Atleast try to make Indian feed readable with your personal experiences from which other could learn something or else don't write. Quora ain't paying you. Atleast don't make this place garbage with all these answers.
A$A$A
Usage of wrong language.

By wrong language, I don't mean wrong grammar.

Quora is supposed to be a decent platform to discuss issues.

Usage of abuses and angry disagreements, don't look good. We have to maintain our dignity as intellectuals

Please don't do it. Facebook is full of angry discussions. Please don't pollute Quora.
A$A$A
Ask the same question, again and again, with dlfferent "topics" tagged, hoping that magically the answer will differ.

Once in a while I feel like I'm either having dejavu or getting senile when encountering some of the questions here :)
A$A$A
Clarifying in the comments section instead of doing a quick google search themselves.

I won’t paste screenshots but it is somewhat like this,

They read an answer to some question

Answer has a word which is just out of their vocabulary ( which is understandable since we are humans and are not born with a dictionary in the head which constantly updates itself automatically)

They don’t google/search the word instead put a comment saying, ‘What is xyz?’

Replies to their comment generally involve comments saying , ‘Please do a google search and see’

They should atleast google/search for the word, understand the meaning and re-read answer and then if it still doesn’t satisfy the context ask about it and not the meaning. This way they will even learn the correct meaning of the word and its usage. This of course doesn’t apply to those answers which make use of culturally/regionally exclusive words which are not widely popular. In that sense, it is okay.
A$A$A
In addition to what Viviane has said.

-Edit the question (beyond mere grammar) in a way that changes its meaning. Especially done after a lot of people have already answered makes it more wrong making some of the answers look idiotic.
A$A$A
Not upvoting answers they like.

And not answering questions they know.

Quora is not just a site meant for surfing. Its a community from which you give and take. Provide information that you know, and gain information that you don't know.
A$A$A
Aside from those in the “Answer Wiki”, I would like to talk about another thing that needs to be said.

Instead of spreading information, there are a proportion of users on Quora ask for upvotes and following.

I’ve seen that there’s a user who created a banner and put it at the bottom of an answer which conveys the meaning of “if you like my contents, please upvote it”.

This isn’t something healthy, considering Quora is a Q&A site for knowledge, not for fame and recognition.

And it’s sad to know that the platform I love is going this way.

Alfred
A$A$A
My answer is short, but it is a mistake I have made and learned from.

Assuming everyone understands what you mean in your answer is a mistake I made when I answered a question and (after being pig headed) finally admitted to myself, it needed clarification so it would not be misinterpreted.

My answer was well intentioned, but lent  itself to possibly offending the very people the answer was written to defend.
A$A$A
Answring lik dis.

Seriously, SMS script is not for Quora answers. Lucid, descriptive answers are a treat to the readers, whereas answrs lik dese are an irritation.
A$A$A
Valuating answers based on upvotes and views.

Opens Quora.

Opens a question.

Scrolls down to see the views and upvotes.

Then scrolls back up to read the answer depending on the upvotes.

PS- I used to do the same but I realised my mistake.

/Vishnu/
A$A$A
Ask questions which have no relevance in the long run and date very easily.

Simply rephrasing questions should mitigate this significantly.
A$A$A
Ask for upvotes and followers.

And add edits like “OMG THANKS SO MUCH FOR 12 UPVOTES”
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
Justin Trudeau is introducing a law that would make calling someone by the wrong pronoun a criminal offense. How do Canadians feel about that?
A$A$A
I’m unhappy that there are Canadians, and people observing Canada from outside, who are so politically uninformed that they might believe that this question is about a situation that exists. It does not, and the Trudeau government is not introducing any such law.

Bill C-16 makes it illegal to deny services, employment, accommodation and similar benefits to individuals based on their gender identity or gender expression within a federally regulated industry.

The bill also amends the Criminal Code to include gender identity or gender expression in Section 318, which already makes it a criminal offence to advocate or promote genocide against members of an identifiable group. Heck...I suspect that portion of the law could be used to prosecute someone promoting violence against homophobes or Neo-Nazis.

If you are male, and identify as such, and I insist on referring to you as “she” and “her” then I am being rude and ignorant, but what I am doing is not, and will not be, illegal.

If you aren't actually trying to hurt people, or deny them some basic rights because of gender identity, or encouraging others to do the same, then there is nothing to worry about.

The entire text of the bill can be found here.

C-16 (42-1) - Royal Assent - An Act to amend the Canadian Human Rights Act and the Criminal Code - Parliament of Canada

And there is a fair bit of additional information available about the bill here… Bill C-16, An Act to amend the Canadian Human Rights Act and the Criminal Code

There is no mention of pronouns or making improper use of pronouns a crime in either of these documents.

I have reported your question…one of a long line of similar ones in recent days… as insincere. Even if you are sincere about it, it is so divorced from facts that it should not be shared widely.
A$A$A
First, stop lying.

Refusing to call someone by their preferred pronoun has not been criminalized.

Discriminating against people based on gender identity has been codified. The federal government is simply adding and expanding protections already provided to diverse religious, racial and sexual identity individuals. The federal government has simply caught up with changes already codified in many of Canada's provinces and territories.

What has been criminalized is refusing to address someone by their preferred gender pronoun COMPOUNDED by engaging in hateful speech and or actions based on their gender identity. Doing that can certainly result in criminal charges and conviction.

As a progressive Canadian, I think it is laudable of our government to increase protections under the law to vulnerable people. Voting rights for women, same-sex marriage, equality under the law for people of all backgrounds, protecting people from discrimination and officially promoting diversity in hiring are all progressive measures that I support. And over time I anticipate more progressive changes to legislation that will reflect the progressive views of Canadians. Which will inevitably result in discord and disagreement from individuals and groups who are uncomfortable with changing the status quo.

Some people simply aren't accepting of change.
A$A$A
No. That is not what happened.

“An Act to amend the Canadian Human Rights Act and the Criminal Code (Bill C-16, 2016) is a law passed by the Canadian Parliament. It was introduced in the Parliament of Canada on May 17, 2016 by the Liberal government of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. The bill adds gender expression and identity as a protected ground to the Canadian Human Rights Act, and also to the Criminal Code provisions dealing with hate propaganda, incitement to genocide, and aggravating factors in sentencing.”

This is a logical extension of the Human Rights code. I don't think that people should be denied a job or housing based on their gender expression.

The amendments to the criminal code are also logical.

Quite frankly, I don't see what the fuss is all about.

An Act to amend the Canadian Human Rights Act and the Criminal Code - Wikipedia
A$A$A
At the University of Toronto, the university administration has issued an instruction to their employees that they were to address students by a non-gender-specific pronouns when addressing students. This was seen as a concession to the transsexual community. One professor, Jordan Peterson has refused to do so, stating that he considered such a form of address to be both scientifically and legally wrong. He further has stated that the direction from the university administration infringes his freedom of speech. See -

University of Toronto professor defends right to use gender-specific pronouns

The professor vs. the pronoun warriors

While this controversy is going on at a university campus, the federal government has approved an amendment to the Canadian Human Rights Act to ban discrimination based on ‘gender identity or gender expression.’ It is possible that some of the transsexual activists will attempt to make official complaints about the use of what they consider an incorrect pronoun, however I would expect any effort to enforce criminal sanctions for use of a pronoun might not find much support with the public. While I was unable to find in the legislation any indication as to how the law was to be applied, it is not uncommon in Canadian jurisprudence for enforcement of a law to require authorization at a senior level (frequently political) before sanctions are invoked.
A$A$A
Thanks for the A2A. If he did pass such a law, I would be appalled. However, he did no such thing, as every other answer on here has already pointed out.

The only reason I am posting an additional answer on here - aside from the A2A aspect - is to urge you to stop listening to extremists who twist things out of context in order to scaremonger their flocks, and thus encourage them to A) donate to them so they can "fight" this, B) increase attendance at Sunday services, C) make you vote a certain way, D) encourage you to divide society into us/them to make you easier control, E) any combination of the preceding.
A$A$A
I feel that you are making that up. Got a citation from a CBC, Global or CTV website? Got the number of the bill so I can e-mail my MP?
A$A$A
Objection Your Honour: Conjecture. Baiting the Witness....

“People never lie so much as after a hunt, during a war or before an election”.

Otto von Bismarck

Read more at: Otto von Bismarck Quotes
A$A$A
Not going to be a criminal offense. The bill adds transgender identities to the categories of things that hate speech prohibits, which already includes several other things, and hate speech covers things people say that advocate for extermination and mass discrimination of that group. A he and she is not qualifying.
A$A$A
Justin Trudeau doesn’t just make laws. Read about how the Canadian government works. Thanks.
A$A$A
There's no such law in existence or on the table.

Everybody, just calm down.
A$A$A
I am a straight biological male who identifies as male.

I also live in Toronto’s North St. James Town. Okay, it’s also known as the Church-Wellesley neighbourhood. Okay, everybody calls it the Gay Village. I know gay, lesbian and transgender people. I also see a lot of transvestites and transsexuals.

So, naturally speaking, I’m totally in favour of the coming changes to the Canadian human rights code. I hope Ontario follow suit.

It’s pride weekend for genderqueer people (it’s not just Gay Pride anymore). Mind you, I’ve decamped to The Falls for the weekend. It’s only because the celebration is getting nosier and I gotta get some sleep! It’s easier for me to take some time off than complain about the noise.

You could learn something from that.

Oh, and hanging is too good for anyone who assaults someone just because of their sexual preferences or gender identity. It’s a good thing I’m against capital punishment too.
A$A$A
You are either misinformed or a liar.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
Is pretending to surrender in a war just to lure your enemy into a trap a war crime?
A$A$A
Perfidy is indeed a war crime, which is why this:

Was and is legal.

During the ongoing Tet offensive, this picture was taken of a high ranking Southern Vietnam official executing a man in civilian clothing.

That man in civilian clothing was an NVA combatant, who had just executed and mangled an entire family of civilians, belonging to a high ranking official in the Southern Vietnamese Army.

This man executed civilians under the guise of being a civilian. This man, pretending not to be a threat to security, snuck past defensive lines to kill unarmed women and children.

The city was still under attack and the man was guilty, so he was executed accordingly.

While not technically a surrender, it does fall under the use of using unofficial clothing to weave through combatants to get to non-combatants.

As you can see by the bullet going through this man’s head, Perfidy is unacceptable.
A$A$A
Yes.

The act of false surrender is legally known as Perfidy and is classified as a war crime under the Geneva conventions which state:

Article 37. – Prohibition of perfidy

1. It is prohibited to kill, injure or capture an adversary by resort to perfidy. Acts inviting the confidence of an adversary to lead him to believe that he is entitled to, or is obliged to accord, protection under the rules of international law applicable in armed conflict, with intent to betray that confidence, shall constitute perfidy. The following acts are examples of perfidy:

(a) The feigning of an intent to negotiate under a flag of truce or of a surrender;

(b) The feigning of an incapacitation by wounds or sickness;

(c) The feigning of civilian, non-combatant status; and

(d) The feigning of protected status by the use of signs, emblems or uniforms of the United Nations or of neutral or other States not Parties to the conflict.

The reason for this is that perfidy dissuades soldiers from accepting genuine surrenders and instead outright killing enemies who wish to give up. This is only logical because if you’ve been betrayed before why take the risk?
A$A$A
It is.

Pretending to surrender was a common Japanese battle tactic during the WWII Pacific War.

In the context of war, perfidy [false surrender] is a form of deception in which one side promises to act in good faith (such as by raising a flag of truce) with the intention of breaking that promise once the enemy is exposed (such as by coming out of cover to attack the enemy coming to take the "surrendering" prisoners into custody). Perfidy constitutes a breach of the laws of war and so is a war crime, as it degrades the protections and mutual restraints developed in the interest of all parties, combatants, and civilians.

In practice, combatants find it difficult to respect protected persons and objects if experience causes them to believe or suspect that their adversaries are abusing a claim to protection under international law to gain a military advantage.

During the Pacific Theatre of World War II, Japanese soldiers were reported to often booby-trap their dead and wounded and/or fake surrenders or injuries to lure Allied troops into a trap then surprise attack them. One example of this was the "Goettge Patrol" during the early days of the Guadalcanal Campaign in 1942 in which an allegedly fake Japanese surrender resulted in more than 20 American dead. It has been asserted that this incident, along with many other perfidious actions of the Japanese throughout the Pacific War, led to an Allied tendency to shoot the dead or wounded Japanese soldiers and those who were attempting to surrender and not take them as POWs easily. Perfidy - Wikipedia

Quora contributor David Fred has this to say:

I can corroborate what you say, at least via hearsay. My Dad who as I’ve told you fought in the Pacific, told me of that, often, including strapping explosives to women, children, etc.

He says it dehumanized all of them, it became a matter of survival first, instinct, and humanity second. He never had, or at least never showed, PTSD to me. He was very matter of fact about it. “"It was them, or me, and it wasn’t going to be me, or one of my buddies.” I never pressed him on it.

I also saw a documentary, where they were interviewing some Canadian tankers, who said it was a common tactic of the Hitler Youth as well. I remember one, talking about being the third tank in a column of 5. He said as they went through a town, to kids from the SS jumped out with panzerfausts, and hit the #1 and 2 tanks in quick succession before throwing down the empty tubes, raising their hands, laughing to surrender.

He said “"My bow gunner didn’t see the humor in it.”

It was such a common Japanese tactic during WWII that it led to the Americans shooting surrendering Japanese soldiers rather than taking them prisoners because taking them prisoner was “too dangerous”.

Outrage at Japanese perfidy and atrocities motivated the murderous rage of U.S. soldiers on the battlefield. Japanese soldiers routinely fired on U.S. medics and hospitals. The contrast with the war against the Germans is striking; medics in Europe occasionally armed themselves, whereas those in the Pacific did so routinely. When clearing a battlefield, Japanese soldiers who seemed dead would spring up to attack U.S. personnel off guard. Even the most grievously wounded would attempt to take a U.S. soldier or medic with them by detonating a grenade when approached closely. White flags and offers to surrender were used as ruses to get U.S. marines and soldiers to expose themselves to Japanese fire. It was not unusual for U.S. soldiers to find the mutilated bodies of others who had surrendered.

The evidence for Japanese perfidy is anecdotal, so it is unclear how often it occurred, whether it was rampant or merely frequent. Stories about Japanese perfidy and atrocities were widespread among U.S. soldiers and marines and the beleif in Japanese treachery and the inability to trust any signal of intend to surrender commonly held. Rumors of Japanese brutality and deceit spread rapidly, whether or not they were based on truth. The most famous story of treachery occurred early in the Guadalcanal campaign. A Japanese sailor described a group of Japanese read to surrender if a group of Americans came out to get them. The landing party led by Lieutenant Colonel Frank Goethe was massacred after they waded ashore at the beach. The story of the Goethe patrol spread widely and quickly and became part of the common lore of U.S. troops sent to fight the Island war. Order within Anarchy eBook by James D. Morrow - Rakuten Kobo

This behavior is wrapped up in cultural differences partly to do with surrender being honorable behavior in the West if one fought until defeat was certain while surrender and being taken alive was shameful in Japan.

There are instances of perfidy throughout history but it was most commonly seen by WWII Japanese troops.

Surrender (military) - Wikipedia
A$A$A
Yes it is. And there are actually many things we see occurring in movies and video games that are also a war crime. Pretending to surrender with the intention that some of your comrades are going to shoot the enemy once they come out of their hiding place was especially common from the Soviet Union in World War Two who did just that. Once you willfully break a rule such as this that knowingly results in death — you can be tried for murder within a military or civilian court, as such prisoners are no longer protected by Geneva Conventions. Fortunately, civilian criminal courts are becoming more lenient (the USA being exceptional in that the USA has gotten harsher on such offences) which means that a combatant that commits such an act today would still be treated more leniently in most countries than in the past. It still does not change the fact that it is illegal to do so.

Other offences that are against the rules of war is escaping after having surrendered. While the Geneva Convention demands that a guard give a warning shot first, and that a prisoner that escapes cannot be given excessive punishments for the escape; deliberately killing or seriously injuring a guard while a prisoner of war is in fact illegal. Even though the guard has the right to shoot you after giving a warning shot (since you are no longer seen as a prisoner) the escaping prisoner is not allowed to shoot back or use any sort of lethal force during the escape. This rule was largely enforced due to the assumption that a country signing the Geneva will ensure that prisoners are cared for. And in return, it is expected that prisoners are not going to try and assassinate their guards. So when you see those movies or video games where a prisoner stalks and kills his guards one by one, you should realise that what they are doing is 100% illegal. A prisoner that has escaped is not actually allowed to take up arms again until they return back to their line.

Using certain types of weapons, such as a flamethrower, is as illegal as using gas. Flamethrowers are allowed for burning fields to force the enemy out. They are also allowed to use it against buildings whereby they create so much smoke that the enemy is forced to come out. In certain cases, it can also be used against certain armoured vehicles, such as tanks. However, you and your comrades are not allowed to shoot at the tank crew until they have fully left the tank. Shooting at them while they are trying to flee from a burning tank is considered a war crime as the crew member is considered unarmed at this point. And if they happen to get caught on fire and are trying to extinguish the fire by rolling around, you are also not allowed to shoot as they are considered defenceless.

Shooting a soldier in midair while they are coming down by parachute is also technically illegal, as the paratrooper has no reasonable means to defend themselves nor are they able to surrender at this point. A paratrooper can only be shot at if they land and begin to take out their weapons rather than surrendering. When you are a pilot fighting another pilot, it is also illegal to continue shooting at the plane once it becomes obvious that the plane has been knocked out. This is because the crew inside the fallen aircraft have to be given a reasonable opportunity to bale out.

It is also illegal to shoot at or deliberately refuse to aid an enemy combatant stranded in the water; whether it be due to a plane crash or shipwreck. The only time an enemy ship is allowed to leave is when there is good reason to suspect that enemy units, such as submarines, are nearby and might take advantage of the situation, even though it is technically illegal for an enemy submarine to attack a ship while it is in the process of carrying out a rescue. Nonetheless, since submarine crews are known for violating such treaties on occasion, the Geneva sometimes permits a ship to simply give a buoy, life jacket or some other support and let the survivors in the water wait out for one of their own ships or submarines. It is also illegal to attack a ship or submarine that is clearly incapacitated and no longer able to fight back. Only once the submarine or ship become vacant and attacking the vessel or submarine will not endanger the lives of those on board does it become legal to sink the target in order to ensure that the opposing side does not retrieve their craft.

It is also against the rules of war to force a prisoner to give any information other than their name, rank and unit. A prisoner who refuses to give any additional information cannot be pressured into giving additional details, nor can they be disciplined or punished for refusing to do so. On the other hand, it is technically legal if the prisoner becomes more compliant on his own terms; even if it is due to the treatment he received from his captives- so long as the treatment is positive rather than negative. That is why some countries are known for spoiling prisoners who they think might talk, but they cannot punish them if their attempt fails.

Using a prisoner of war as a shield is also illegal, as you are effectively taking the prisoner hostage, which is a war crime. The only time such acts may exonerate the offender, is if it was done in genuine self-defence (such as that the enemy he encountered was going to kill/torture him whether he surrendered or not) or some other extenuating circumstance in which case it could become the other side that is in violation of the Geneva.

Deliberately destroying private property is also against the rules of war. While it is inevitable that private property will be destroyed in a war, especially when the war becomes more urbanised; to destroy anything other than what is necessary to winning a valid military objective is a breach of the Geneva Convention. Only accidental damage is not considered criminal from the perpetrator. Even though the country that caused the damage to that property is the one who technically has to pay for it — in practice, it is almost always the losing country that ends up picking up both tabs (theirs and the enemy’s damage to private property).

Not burying the dead is also a war crime for two reasons. One being that it is disrespectful to the dead. But also because of the diseases which can spread as a result of not cleaning up a battlefield. If you just got into a skirmish with the enemy and you know there are more enemy combatants around you do not have to clean up the bodies right away. But once the area is clear and it is safe to do so, the winning side is expected to bury both their own as well as the enemy in order to avoid decomposition which can be followed with diseases or other maladies arising.

Other crimes which are illegal include sending those under eighteen to war. (Though some countries allow people as young as sixteen into noncombat roles with permission from their parents or guardian.) It is also illegal to force a conquered civilian population to take up arms against the soldiers of their own nationality, whether directly as a combatant themselves or indirectly as somebody who helps create new weapons to use on their own country (unless they willfully comply).

The Ottawa Treaty has been signed by nearly every country on earth. Countries such as the USA and Israel at this time are quite exceptional in that they have not signed the treaty which bans the use of landmines in warfare. If a war using landmines from one of these countries ever arises, it would be interesting to see the outcome; particularly if that offending country is on the losing side, as there is no doubt they will be questioned as to why they felt compelled to have landmines when every other country banned it. Under the Ottawa Treaty, landmines can only be used for the purposes of learning to defuse a mine, in case a soldier is fighting a terrorist faction, a country that still uses landmines in war, or if they stumble upon some old mine from decades ago that previous generations missed.

The use of nuclear weapons is also illegal as it is considered to be a weapon of mass destruction. Bayonets with a sharp edge are also illegal as it causes more tissue damage and severely lessens the chances of survival for the victim, as is the use of certain types of bullets intended to maximise damage on their enemies. Certain types of bullets are not allowed in war as it inflicts unnecessary harm on the enemy combatant and reduces their chances of survival.

As you can see, there are many things which are considered to be war crimes which are seen in movies being carried out as though it were a legitimate act. One grey area has to do with enemy combatants found in civilian clothing. Nearly all combatants get out of uniform when they are off duty and not fighting. However, it is also not unheard of for such soldiers to be caught in civilian uniform when they are unexpectedly attacked. In the past, many countries treated such soldiers as spies. On D-Day the Americans are known for having shot several Germans caught in their pyjamas because of the early morning time that the D-Day offence was conducted which gave them no time to dress into uniform. These days, however, it is generally agreed that a soldier caught in civilian clothing for reasons out of their control are still genuine combatants; unless they pose as civilians in order to try and score an easy kill on a uniformed enemy combatant.
A$A$A
Many others have already mentioned that it is a war crime and is known as perfidy.

There is a very good reason that it is classified as a war crime. You see, it is also a war crime to shoot an enemy that is surrendering. The only way you can expect the enemy to honor the requirement to accept your surrender is if there is a fair expectation that your surrender is real.

If a force starts offering fake surrenders, it delegitimizes any other surrenders offered by someone on their side, which can result in the massacre of people that were attempting to give up peacefully.
A$A$A
From Wikipedia article, “White Flag”:

The white flag is an internationally recognized protective sign of truce or ceasefire, and request for negotiation. It is also used to symbolize surrender, since it is often the weaker party which requests negotiation. A white flag signifies to all that an approaching negotiator is unarmed, with an intent to surrender or a desire to communicate. Persons carrying or waving a white flag are not to be fired upon, nor are they allowed to open fire. The use of the flag to surrender is included in the Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907.

The improper use of the flag is forbidden by the rules of war and constitutes a war crime of perfidy. There have been numerous reported cases of such behavior in conflicts, such as combatants using white flags as a ruse to approach and attack enemy combatants, or killings of combatants attempting to surrender by carrying white flags.
A$A$A
Yes and it backfires quickly. People stopped taking Hitler youth prisoners after some used grenades after they became prisoners.

During the Falklands war a British officer was killed after trying to take surrender of one trench when the occupants of another fired on him. Whether this was deliberately or just confusion is unknown. Both trenches were obliterated. Harsh words about not taking prisoners from then on were mentioned. Till it was reminded you can't actually do that.
A$A$A
It is a war crime, known as Perfidy, and is prohibited under Article 37 or Protocol I of the Geneva Conventions of 1949. Others have explained in detail why it is a war crime, but it can be summed up simply.

Once one side fakes a surrender, then the other side no longer has to honor any attempt to surrender, meaning they can legitimately give an order of “no quarter” and cannot be punished.

This goes to pretty much every law of warfare out there. Once one side violates a specific law and custom of war, the other side is no longer obligated to follow that law as well. However, most will continue to observe them to maintain a “moral high ground” and basically tell the rest of the world “We are better than they are because we continue to follow the law even though we are no longer obligated to”.

This has a long historical precedent and has been established convention for centuries before being codified by international law.
A$A$A
The other answers I’ve seen to this question assume there are ‘laws of war’. There is one and only one ‘law of war’.

Harm not the Heralds.

If otherwise the end of the war cannot be negotiated and annihilation is certain.

To pretend that there are civilities in war is fatuous and dangerously misleading. In the example given, a false surrender should ensure that no further surrender will be accepted. In that case, who would be a herald?
A$A$A
Do you mean that if you do it …..or if the so called enemy do it? I suppose it depends on what kind of war it is and if you think you can cover it up …..I know the practise led on to some very bitter fighting in Normandy.

I worked with a man Michael Pacy who was a private in the 15th Scottish Guards Armoured Division and they encountered the 12th SS Panzer head on they were all fanatical teenagers some of them were just kids. He hated killing the kids but it was so dangerous trying to take them alive.

Eventually if the opportunity arose they simply left these children to the Polish Infantry who were glad of the opportunity to settle old scores. They just blew them away using the Crocadile Churchill armed with a flamethrower
A$A$A
IN Western law, it has always been, and called the most tremendous retribution on the culprit, if he lost. Anyone who surrendered treacherously must have known that there would be no quarter after that.
A$A$A
No. there is no such thing as war crime. You fight with whatever you have against your enemy to defend your homeland, and people. the current definitions of war crimes are written by western countries to favour them and their tactics. If some countries went against them, west shows their biased law and accuse those countries for committing war crimes. Ironically US breaks their own rules too from time to time, but then they call them collateral damages or conspiracy theories. West doesn’t own this world, so they can’t make universal laws as they want.
A$A$A
Yes, it would be against international law and you would subject to prosecution after the wa.

Similarly you can use anything marked with a Red Cross or red cresent for tactical purposes.

As I read through these answers along oh you are bit dated on your international laws and regards to warfare. A lot of you are correct about executing spies and soldiers caught in civilian clothing if we were talking about ww2. The laws changed a bit after ww2.

You now have lawful combatant (e.g. Soldier, and militia members) and unlawful combatant (e.g. Terrorist).

Lawful combatants like Soldiers get protection from the Geneva Convention if captured and can't be prosecuted for lawful Actions of a soldier (e.g. Soldier killing other nations soldier in battle).

Unlawful combatants do not get protection. So when they are captured by a nation stated they can be prosecuted for things to include things a soldier would not be. Think Gitmo and sendinh terrorist to prison.
A$A$A
Yes - doing so is perfidy. I qualified as a Military Legal Officer with the SA Army in 2004 and one recent example we were given was an incident during the 1982 Falklands War when elements of the Argentinian army approached a platoon of (2 or 3 - not sure) Para under a white flag. A British officer - Lt. Barry - and his radio operator approached them to parlay but were then both machine-gunned and killed by an Argentinian MG crew
A$A$A
It is a war crime if you lose, and if despite trying this trick you lose the war, it may be much harder to gain mercy on a real surrender.

It is a tactic for use only if you are sure that you can turn the tide of a war that way and that surrendering at any stage is simply not an option. You are making a decision to fight to the death and you are also making it on behalf of other people.

This is why the use of the tactic by sane, rational people is relatively rare.
A$A$A
They say “all is fair in love and war” so I don’t think it is illegal to pretend to give up a fight in order to entrap one’s enemy. As long, that is thst the combatants doing it are in uniform and identifiable as such.
A$A$A
Yes it is.

It is known as “perfidy.”

Perfidy constitutes a breach in the laws of war and so is considered a war crime.

Perfidy - Wikipedia
A$A$A
It's worse than a war crime. It will lead to your own people being wiped out as savages. No one can accept anything but death from any group with a track record that horrific.
A$A$A
That entirely depends upon whether your side wins. In principle, it’s a very bad tactic that lends itself to further horrors on both sides. But then, war isn’t supposed to be pretty or polite. On that, I agree w/ Gen. Sherman.
A$A$A
Yes, it’s called “perfidy”. See Article 37 of Protocol-1 (1977) to the Geneva Convention.
A$A$A
Yes and usually punishable by a very unpleasant death.
A$A$A
Yes. The big word is perfidy: see Perfidy - Wikipedia
A$A$A
Yes it is a war crime, Iraqi Army troops were guilty of this and the Syrian Army has been known to do the same in their war with Jihadists.
A$A$A
It’s an age old war tactic that has been used brilliantly by the greatest commanders and generals in the world for centuries upon centuries. The only reason it’s a war crime now is because of people who think war is a “gentleman’s sport” and moreover, we will always be fighting gentlemen. It’s a war crime to us, maybe, but not to our enemies, and NEVER forget that.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What would you do if someone pepper sprayed your dog?
A$A$A
My neighbor shot my father’s dog one day to “try out” his new shotgun.

The dog was on our property, doing nothing.

My father has one leg, 7 herniated disks, and a collapsed spinal cord supported by titanium rods.

He heard the shot, saw Sugarbear running and stood up from his wheelchair.

“Uhh Dad?”

He didn’t respond verbally. On his prosthetic leg he moved without his walker or even a cane, faster than I’ve ever seen ANYONE move, much less him.

I got out the backdoor just about the time he was getting to the guy holding the shotgun. Words were exchanged, I couldn’t hear them. Suddenly my father grabbed this guy by the chest with one hand and lifted him up off the ground, still holding the shotgun. He pulled him in close and said something. Then he threw him like 20 feet! He landed on his ass and the gun fell to the ground.

My father had his injuries since before I was born, I was always in awe of how smart and persistent a man he was. He was the poster-child for being level-headed, I had never even seen him yell before this day. After that day I understood what a beast of a man he could be if he wanted. I was, (and 20 years later am still) in awe of this man’s strength.

The dog lived and is fine today.

The neighbor? Pissed his pants and calls us all “Sir” now. I won’t look at or speak to him or any member of that family.

Edit: I should have put some back story. My bad.

My father was a semi-pro body builder before he injured his back. He is an enormous man, he can easily pick up a car battery with one hand.

I was 12 when this happened, so it probably wasn’t 20 feet, plus I was behind my father so hard to judge distance from there.

Yeah, I probably exaggerated about how far he threw him, so what? He’s my dad! That was the coolest f***ing thing I’d ever seen!
A$A$A
Well, not exactly on point but . . . I live in a semi-rural setting and one of my neighbors walks every day carrying a rather substantial stick with her because she is afraid of dogs. She walked by my house one day when I had my lab, Maggie, out front while I was working in the yard. Maggie ran to only about five feet from her and barked, which, being the ultimate fraidy-cat, is the most ferocious thing she ever does. Neighbor raised her stick and started toward Maggie. She had previously struck another neighbor’s non-threatening dog in the head, killing the poor thing just because it walked up for some love. My daughter ran toward Maggie and screamed at Neighbor if she hit the dog, she would take that stick, beat Neighbor up with it and shove it where the sun don't shine. Neighbor is now known as the Stick Bitch. However, had she struck and hurt my dog, I'm afraid my .380 may have come into play.

Thank you Catherine Hope for the edit suggestion, however, when I viewed my response, it was fine, didn't have the weird crap in it….go figure!
A$A$A
I had a woman who passed by my house regularly (probably lived nearby, but who knows) and took issue with my dog. Our yard is fenced, my dog is small, and there is no way an issue was going to arise unless she reached in the fence and hurt him (and then he’d probably just run away), but I can’t control what someone else thinks/feels.

After an escalation that involved her calling everyone from animal control to local elected officials to try to force me to stop bringing my dog into my own fenced yard (note “bringing” rather than “leaving”…I was always out with him), she decided to “take matters into her own hands,” stopped, pulled pepper spray from her purse, and pointed it at my fence as she walked by.

The first time she did it, I was so shocked I just stood there and watched. The second time, I was ready. I maneuvered so that my dog would likely be behind me (he’s not much interested in strangers while out in the yard, so he doesn’t really go up to the fence line) and hit record. I informed her in a calm and even voice that I was video recording and that if I were attacked with pepper spray would press all appropriate charges. After insulting my dog and me, she admitted on camera that she was pointing the spray at my dog and would spray him if he came near her. I kept recording until she moved away from my yard, including the moment she put the spray away. I had evidence that she was targeting my dog and threatening to do him harm while he was properly contained and directly supervised. Jackpot.

I called animal control and an officer came out to watch the video. They sent someone to sit out front a few days later (lady had a pretty reliable schedule). The AC officer saw her, got out, handed her a copy of the local animal containment and cruelty laws, informed her that I was in the right and she was risking jail time, and told her to put the pepper spray away and either get over it or cross the street. She now walks out into traffic (over a small dog that is behind a fence and being watched), but she hasn’t tried that game again.

ETA: I do believe animal control was willing to “waste” an hour of an officer’s time on this because they had already fielded several angry phone calls from her about me, and had already paid me a visit to confirm my yard was secure and my dog was properly licensed and vaccinated. She had also called the police multiple times, and I know at least one of those calls was referred to animal control because they called me (I gave them my info at their first visit…after getting nowhere with A/C, she went to the police…then local electeds). Sending an officer out to sit and wait for her saved them more phone calls/police referrals/requests from elected officials in the future.

Important note, based on comments: She did not actually spray my dog or me! She aimed, but didn’t fire. Between animal control and I, we were able to shut her down before any “shots were fired.”
A$A$A
This actually happened to my dad's dog when he was a kid.

There was a mailman who hated Mickey, my dad's muscular Boston Terrier (who was actually built more like a bulldog), for some reason.

Mickey was a guard dog, so he would run up to the fence and bark at anyone who came by. But he was behind the fence, so he wasn't a threat to the guy. Mailman didn't see it that way, though. He would complain to grandma about the "wild and dangerous" dog. My grandma would always say, "He's behind a fence. You're not in danger at all." This didn't convince the mailman, though.

One day as he was delivering the mail he reached over the fence and sprayed mace in Mickey's face. Of course Mickey was in pain for a while, and my grandma yelled at the guy, but he was unrepentant and actually seemed pleased. It wasn't over, though.

The next day, grandma left Mickey in the house with the door open and the screen door closed so he could see the street. When the mailman showed up, Mickey tensed up and began growling. My grandma opened the door to release the Kraken, but she wasn't fast enough. As soon as the door unlatched, Mickey tore out after the mailman, knocking the screen door off the hinges. He chased the terrified mailman down the block before returning home, satisfied that he had repelled the barbaric invader.

The mailman threatened legal action, but grandma said, "You shouldn't spray mace on dogs that aren't bothering you."

The next week they had a new mailman who was much friendlier, but Mickey never got over his vendetta against that evil mailman and his kind.
A$A$A
What would you do if someone pepper sprayed your dog?

I read a story on another site about how someone in a park had a kid approach their muzzled dog, and out of nowhere the mother comes up and sprays their dog in the face. Her excuse was “The dog is muzzled, so it must be dangerous! I wasn’t going to wait for it to hurt my child!” How would you react?

If someone sprayed my dogs out of legitimate fear then likely I would just take the dog and wash it thoroughly until it recovered.

Both my dogs are 100 lbs or more and they can LOOK scary when they run up to play — they love everyone, especially children and the only danger the really offer is knocking some little kid down.

I take great pains to control the dogs AND to warn people they approach or if children want to approach the dogs.

They REALLY LOVE CHILDREN and get very excited to be allowed to meet any child.

However, if someone ran up and started spraying without any reasonable excuse I would might conceivably take the sprayer and hold the trigger in front of her face until it ran out.
A$A$A
What would you do if someone pepper sprayed your dog?

I read a story on another site about how someone in a park had a kid approach their muzzled dog, and out of nowhere the mother comes up and sprays their dog in the face. Her excuse was “The dog is muzzled, so it must be dangerous! I wasn’t going to wait for it to hurt my child!” How would you react?

It all depends on context.

If some moron sprayed my dog when it was not presenting sort of threat, heated words would be my minimum response.

If my dog was legitimately threatening someone, their response would be justified.

If they injured my dog for giggles, violence will ensue. When I was a kid, at the park, I saw another kid kick a small dog for fun. So I ran up and kicked him in the balls. I didn’t notice the asshole had friends. I do not regret my decision.

On the other hand, I have an uncle who had a yappy, aggressive little dog. I forget the breed. It liked to charge and bite people. I complained of this multiple times, and my uncle would only gently scold the dog. I told him if he didn’t take measures to control the dog better, I would, including hurting the dog. He dismissed it as hyperbole, until the time the dog charged me and I kicked it down the hallway. That dog never bothered me again.

Like any use of force, the justification depends on context. A legitimate threat may be met by force. But injuring an animal just for fun should not be tolerated.

And if at all possible, I try to give the owner a chance to discipline their animal before I do. It depends on the immediacy of the situation.

In the scenario presented in the question, the woman clearly overreacted to an utterly irrational fear. If the dog is already muzzled, clearly someone is taking steps to control the dog. It’s mere presence is not a threat.

Further, she is clearly a bad parent. The appropriate response would have been to scold the child for approaching a strange dog without permission from the mother, the owner, and the dog.

If that had been my dog, I’d have told the woman exactly that, and filed a police report in case I had to sue for reimbursement for medical bills if the dog was injured.
A$A$A
Meet Sara:

You probably cannot tell too well from this photo, but she was just slightly bigger than your regular cat.

She was one of the best things that ever happened to me. I had her from when I was 14 until I was 25.

She was the most adorable and well behaved dog you could ever find.

She never ever needed a leash to be walked outside.

Waited patiently in front of the store, untied, while I was in, buying stuff.

She never ate stuff off the ground.

Never chewed stuff around the house either.

In fact, she’d only play with an object after I’d made it clear that it was hers.

She was shy and would only start her lunch once we left the kitchen.

And then she’d often leave some of her lunch for later.

She rarely barked (a big plus when you live in an apartment building).

She never bit, except very gently while playing with us.

She was extremely loving.

But abstained from licking my mom’s face, knowing she didn’t like it.

Completely charmed my dad, who hadn’t wanted a dog at all.

I sometimes took her to school; she’d sleep in my desk during class, and teachers didn’t mind.

People usually afraid of dogs had no problem with her.

But she was so easily scared and New Year’s fireworks were the absolute worst for her.

And then there was this slightly older guy who lived in my building. Not really in my group of friends, but we occasionally hung out simply because we were using the same spots in the area (mostly on the building’s entrance steps).

One day, I was coming back home with Sara from a walk, and this guy was there with a few of his buddies. Sara stopped to sniff something, and I was walking toward the entrance stairs, when I see him throw something in Sara’s direction and laugh.

It landed right under her, and half a second later a loud pop announced what it was: a firecracker.

Two seconds later, I was punching him in the face with all my might.

By some miracle, Sara was not physically harmed by the firecracker, but poor little thing was in shock. She was shaking and whimpering and when I picked her up she nearly glued herself to me and wouldn’t let go. I spent the rest of the day comforting her.

Not only did the jerk not apologize, he actually punched me back quite hard in the jaw, but I was so furious and worried about Sara that I didn’t even feel much, let alone care.

That was the first and only punch I ever delivered to someone. And the story would have gone exactly the same if he had pepper sprayed her instead.

But at the same time, the reasons behind the action make a big difference. While there’s no excuse for throwing a lit firecracker under or near any living being, when it comes to pepper spray, it could be either way. Had he sprayed her just for chuckles, the outcome would have been the same. Had he sprayed her for legitimate self-defense, I would have been upset, but understanding (although if we’re talking about my dog, no one could have ever believably used the excuse of self-defense against her).
A$A$A
It depends on the situation. If my dog was doing nothing, my indignation would be similar to that of many other Quorans who answered before me.

But if my dog had perhaps gotten away from me and frightened someone while running around off the leash (even if he/she actually meant no harm), I could understand someone using pepper spray.

I actually bought a canister of pepper spray last year, after my dog was attacked by a loose dog within a block of my house. I live in Mexico, and in addition to the many strays here, there are aggressive dogs that are allowed to run off leash and canny guard dogs that figure out how to escape their yards. The latter was the type that attacked my dog.

When my dog was attacked, completely out of the blue and unprovoked, I screamed for help because the fight was instantly vicious (one full pit bull and one pit bull mix—they don’t like to give up easily). Fortunately, someone I knew who was working construction next door heard my shrieks and came running. We grabbed the hind legs of each dog and got them separated… and four times the other dog got away from him and came back at my dog. It was terrifying. I was lucky my dog only wound up with one big puncture wound and some smaller cuts by the time we got them separated permanently.

After that incident, I started carrying pepper spray with me on walks. I’ve never had to use it, but I’ve come close a few times. Not all uses of pepper spray are by jerks, so if your dog gets sprayed, you need to look at the situation and assess accordingly. The same dog that was attacked in this story has slipped his collar a few times and taken off down the beach. It’s entirely feasible that someone could have had him run up to them and, not knowing he’s friendly, been scared and acting in defense of their kids or pets, just as I might have in the same scenario.

Unprovoked pepper spray is a cause for complaint, but make sure the word “unprovoked” is part of your defense.
A$A$A
I was not my dog… but here’s what happened:

I’m a retired Police officer and I was answering a Domestic Violence call. I just called radio and informed radio that I was 10–23 (At the scene). We don’t park in front of the house that we are called to, so I parked about two houses from the address. I got out of my cruiser and started towards the house through the yards. I made it about half way there when I heard a barking dog! I looked up and saw this dog coming for me at a full gallop as big as a horse (a Massive) I turned to run but, knew it would run me down. I made three running steps and drew my Pepper Spray as I was turning back. I started my stream when it was 6–8′ away. It applied brakes and started to turn when it saw the stream. I was shooting a 3 second burst as I was bringing my hand up. The dog was scared as it tried to regain traction as it was turning, it’s tail came up and I sprayed it’s a$$.

It started the most dreadful howling I ever heard. It dropped it’s a$$ and was scooting all over the lawn in ‘figure 8’. I arrive to the door and a woman answered. She told me that her husband slapped her around and took off when she was calling the police. “So he’s not here?”

“No, Sir! …What in the hell !”

“Ma’am! If you can get your dog to the back of the house, you can use the garden hose and hose off it’s rear end, it will cool the burn! I had to Pepper Spray it when it attacked me ! “

She started laughing! Laughed so hard that she had to sit down.

“Officer, that dog ain’t mine… it belongs to the neighbor next door!”

“Ma’am! It came from your backyard??”

“That dog jumps fences, it spend more time in our back yard then theirs!”

I took information about her husband and went next door and got the neighbor's kids to chase their dog down and told them to use cold water to rinse the rear of the dog.

I found the husband later that night and made the arrest!
A$A$A
This is my little fur ball, Khan. We named him after the Khan from “The Wrath of Khan” (a Star Trek film), though oftentimes I refer to Genghis as well when it’s clear someone isn’t into science fiction. Runner-up names included “Goliath” and “Sampson”.

Khan is a Pekingese, they’re known as being stubborn couch potatoes that aren’t particularly social; two out of three apply to our little guy. He loves everyone and assumes all people and dogs are as playful, social, and happy as he is.

When he was a puppy he would playfully bite our hands, my husband and I would both say “ouch” and stop playing immediately; he figured out that biting wasn’t acceptable. Today the vet can stick her fingers in his mouth and poke about, or even take his temperature, without fear of being bitten (though he can get pretty squirmy).

If he feels threatened, he retreats to the safe space behind the legs of my husband or I, and barks from a safe distance to prove how brave he is. This mostly happens if another dog tries to mount him, which, thankfully, isn’t very often. If he’s afraid of an aggressive dog, he’ll paw at me, and I pick him up until the threat is gone. Khan is a lover, not a fighter.

Let’s say someone approached my little guy, all six kilos of him. They’d be met with a pair of giant eyes, an excited wagging tail, he would probably crouch or roll onto his side when their hand extended, eagerly anticipating the attention and affection.

If the heartless monster pepper sprayed him, things wouldn’t end well for them. Unlike my dog, I’m not a small, defenseless innocent. Assuming they were stupid enough to remain within reach, I would tackle them to the ground, pinning them with my full body weight (and I’m not a small woman). I would then empty whatever remained in the pepper spray can into their eyes. Male or female, I’d finish off my reaction with a kick to their nether regions for good measure - and if I’m in the park, I might just be wearing heavy boots.

Then I’d get my dog to the vet immediately, and pray no lasting damage was done.
A$A$A
Let me show you a couple of pictures of my dog, Buddy. Then after you mull over those pictures, I’ll come back to the question.

He’s an 8-year-old Maltese, but EVERYONE has thought he was the cutest puppy for his entire life. He always gets everything he wants.

Here is a picture of what he looks like when I leave for work:

So.

Would any sane person mace this cute little dog? Really?

But if someone actually did mace this little fellow, I would, first, kick the mace out of the attacker’s hand and grab my dog to protect him. When the attack is clearly over, I would gather the attacker’s information: name, age, grievance. I would then tell them to stay where they are while I call the police.

Seriously. What is wrong with people?
A$A$A
This actually happened to me. I was running with my dog, and we ran past a woman on the trail. My dog didn’t bark or rush the woman, and this was an area with no leash law. As I ran by I caught the whiff of mace. I stopped, turned to the woman and asked her if she’d sprayed mace at me. She denied it at first, then admitted she was afraid of my dog. My dog, who during this whole fairly intense exchange was sitting at my side, calm as could be. She had missed my dog completely with the mace, which was lucky for her.

I called the police on her. I also told her that if she ever did this again, and I had bear spray on me, I’d spray her back.

Macing like that, for no reason, is assault. I filed a police report.

So I didn’t beat on her, or vigilante justice. If anything happened to me, where would my dog go? Mace for mace seems appropriate, which is how I would have handled it had I mace on me.

It is also best to let the authorities deal with this for you. Get a photo of the person spraying and video, and you’ll find out who they were. Go after them for assault and animal cruelty. Then file a civil suit as well. You won’t win by beating them up, that isn’t smart advice.
A$A$A
My 18 year old son read the question and said, “I’d punch that fucking bitch in the face and say, ‘Get the fuck out of here!’”

I can’t disagree with his feelings, because that’s exactly what I’d like to do, but apparently with age comes some level of maturity. So while I feel like he does, I must take issue with his methods.

So here’s my take on it.

First of all, I know that pepper spray won’t injure my dog. It will do to my dog exactly what it does to me: it will sting my eyes and cause my nose to run. It might irritate my sinus passages, and it might also irritate my esophagus. I would have to watch my dog carefully over the next few days to ensure that she wasn’t suffering any unforeseen ill effects from the spray, but I know that besides being in pain for some time, she’ll be fine.

Secondly, pepper spray is not a weapon in my state. It is a self-defense tool. The person merely needs to feel threatened in order to deploy it. However, I would argue that a muzzled dog isn’t a threat to anyone, and that the child approached the dog, not the other way around. It was the child who was uncontrolled, not the dog. The woman’s statement also corroborates this account, as she essentially admitted that she preemptively used her defensive tool as an offensive one, which would be an improper use of a self defense tool. This, to me, would fall under my state’s definition of Cruelty to Animals, a violation of Colorado Revised Statute 18–9–202. Conviction of Cruelty to Animals is a Class 1 Misdemeanor with a minimum fine of $400, maximum fine of $5000. In addition to any other fine, a surcharge of up to $400 shall be paid to the county where the violation occurred to be put into the Animal Cruelty Prevention fund.

Therefore, I would immediately be calling the police and getting a report filed so that even if not convicted of an animal cruelty violation, I’d know who to sue if there were any health-related complications that followed the unlawful spraying.

Incidentally, I use a device on my dog called a Halti. There is a big difference between a Halti…

…and a muzzle.

The Halti almost looks like a muzzle to the uninformed, doesn’t it? (well not to me, but to each his own I guess). It’s also called a “gentle lead” as it corrects a dog’s improper pulling against a leash by closing the dog’s mouth when it pulls against the leash. For both of my Goldens, application of the Halti almost instantly stopped the pulling on-leash. My current Golden is a stubborn little girl though, and if she really wants to go see something, she will actually endure the mouth-closing effects of the Halti so she can see what she wants to see. Nevertheless, I had someone ask me once why my dog was muzzled, and so I had to explain what a Halti was, while I marveled at the lack of understanding of what a muzzle is.
A$A$A
Ya know…I’d say I’m an easy going guy. I make it a point to be polite and friendly to everybody. Anyone who knows me will tell you that’s true.

Like the time I found a baby bird on the sidewalk. He was trying to fly, but had a broken wing so he was just flapping around in circles like a total idiot.

What’s the matter lil guy? I asked...

He looked terrified, and didn’t respond. Ya know, cuz he’s a bird.

That’s not important. So anyway, being the compassionate person I am, I took him home and made a little nest for him out of an old shoe box. I even made a tiny bed for him out of cotton balls so he could get some rest and recover in comfort. When he got hungry, I went out in the backyard to dig up worms for his breakfast. Before bedtime, I tucked him in and would drip warm milk into his lil beak from a tiny eye dropper until we both drifted off to sleep. It was adorable.

I named him Robin. God I loved that lil bird.

Robin eventually got better, and I rereleased him back into the wild. As i proudly watched him fly off into the sunset, a single salty tear rolled down my cheek.

I’ll confess. I was heartbroken.

That was the last time I saw Robin. Once in a while, I think about my tiny feathered friend and wonder if he remembers our time together.

Ahhh good times.

What were we talking about again?

Oh yeah! The point is I’m sweet as a packet of cherry FunDip and Pixie Sticks. I put diabetics into sugar comas.

But!! If you ever pepper spray my dog I’ll fucking destroy you. Your family will search high and low, but your body will never be found. Thats because I’ll jam you through a wood chipper, limb by limb, and shred you into pink watery mulch.

As my Scottish relatives would say, you’ll be a bloody mess.

Here’s me and my best friend Stanley!
A$A$A
I understand my dog breed of choice, a german shepherd, is extremely intimidating to some people. I remember i used to have so many people approach me whenever i would walk my Chihuahua, who was extremely sweet to everyone, never barked at a person for no good reason. Unfortunately, her friendly nature is what got her stolen from me. After that, I decided i needed a dog that was intimidating and aloof with strangers. That is how i came upon my german shepherd, Lobo. And boy does he live to that standard, very aloof but doesn’t bark at people for no good reason. He is very friendly once i introduce him properly myself. If i’m not there, he will bark non stop and keep his distance, but he will not charge at the person. Best watch dog i ever had, looks and acts intimidating but as harmless as my Chihuahua before him. The downside ,however, is people avoid me as much as possible whenever i walk Lobo. I am always polite to step off the sidewalk and give as much distance as possible as it’s not what Lobo would do to strangers that scares me, but what strangers would do to Lobo. I know my dog, he’s a huge goofball that loves to chase flies and chew his rubber chicken They don’t, however, and they can easily imagine him chewing their faces off if he gets too close. And I can never know for sure they’ll pull off something stupid like pepper spraying an already restrained dog. My first reaction would be yelling some sense into them, the second being washing the spray off my poor guy’s eyes.
A$A$A
While my family and I were out on doing un-related things, our housekeeper was home with our two dogs. Our gate was closed, and the dogs had no way into the street, so they were playing in the yard. A PSEG guy came to our house to check the meters. Instead of following the law and coming up to the front door and ringing the door bell, he opened our closed gate, and snuck into our backyard in order to “save time.” My 75 lb black lab, who has never hurt a human being in his life, ran up to greet him, and the PSEG guy shot him in the face with paper spray! What he did was illegal and the paper spray hurt the eyes of my mother who checked on the dog. PSEG told us that the employee has been “dealt with,” but didn’t specify what they did. I wish I was home at the time. To answer your question I probably would have punched the guy in the face. Shoulda, woulda, coulda.

EDIT: My profile picture is my dog who got paper sprayed, does he look like a killer to you?

EDIT 2: Fixed a typo
A$A$A
I’m one of those hated bastards who has sprayed a dog with pepper spray…

I was walking our four leashed small dogs in our neighborhood. From across the street, a guy was in his front yard holding a little Chinese Crested, when the dog lept out of his arms and ran towards our dogs, barking, charging and showing his teeth. I immediately grabbed my pepper spray, which I always keep on my belt when I walk the dogs and shot the little guy. It stopped him dead in his tracks and the attack was averted.

However that was just the start of the drama. The owner then comes charging and yelling at me and shoves me (committing battery.) I warn him that if he does that again, I will be forced to defend myself and put him down. He continued to follow and harass me loudly, so I call the police. They arrive, separate him from me, take my story, then his story and then ask me if I want to press charges and have him arrested. I asked if he had calmed down and they replied that he had. I then declined to press charges and moved on.

I felt bad for his dog, but he should’ve maintained control of his animal and I knew the poor little guy would recover. Our dogs have been attacked twice now by stray/unleashed dogs and I’m not letting that happen again.

If someone shot my dog with pepper spray because he/she was unleashed and attacking another animal, I would not blame the shooter.
A$A$A
My neighbors almost blind dog got attacked by another neighbor dog that was significantely larger.

He could save him in the last moment by lifting the other dog by the collar. Finally the attacking dog let go. Unfortunately his dog was injured.

The responsible owner put it off like nothing happened. He was pretty cocky and irresponsible, like my neighbors dog didn't matter.

The next thing that happened was that my neighbor slapped him hard. He's a boxer, so the other guy was lucky he slapped him only. I've never seen him behave agressive though and I know him for almost 20 years.

Moral of the story is, most people treat their pets like family and will get very angry if you abuse them.
A$A$A
I wrote and just deleted a detailed answer to this question. I thought about it and had a much simpler answer. I would react as if someone just attacked my child. I know it's “just a dog”. Not too me! I care more about my dog than about other people's children. Not in a cognitive sense. In a personal way my belongings simply mean more to me. I know this sounds harsh, but it's true. Yes I am aware that children are more important than my dog in general. This situation described makes it personal. So the real answer is anything necessary too ensure the safety of my family. I would also be dishonest I didn't mention my rage coming into play. I would not be satisfied if the woman apologized and handed me the pepper spray. I would have revenge. Imagine it was your child! How would you react?
A$A$A
That depends on which one we are talking about. I have 3 great dogs but depending on which one got sprayed will determine how I react.

Let me start by saying no one messes with my dogs and lives to tell the tale but I know my dogs better than how the Pope knows how to pray. Each acts differently so I can only guess how the situation would go down.

My ever loyal German Shepherd and the other lovable assholes.

We will start with my black lab. She is a very curious 6 month old pup who loves to meet new people, animals, smells, you name it.

Situation: Arya is sniffing laying about scanning the area for potential play mates and then she spots potential prey (cough) I mean friend. As she runs up somehow the person in question must have a great fear of animals or deathly allergic to them so the asshole decides to pepper spray my princess. (Yeah she is my princess get over yourselves). The next few months the person may have trouble walking.

Next my 3 year old pit mix. Now she is the trouble maker but usually just to annoy or she doesn’t like you a lot and you are probably a very bad person if that happens to be you. Now she is smart if she did have something happen she knows either me or my German Shepherd will come to her rescue immediately.

Situation: Harley is screwing around with Arya in the yard suddenly she spots potential (prey) sorry I mean friend. (You may notice a correlation here but the two young ones act almost the same so I consider them sisters just this one has a superiority complex). Harley gives chase cause the person is out for a run and it is a stranger and she MUST meet the stranger well the asshole sprays my dog and then over the next few months this person will not be able to run very great.

Finally my best friend for 6 years my German Shepherd. He is lovable and a teddy bear. Usually if he sees strangers running by our house he doesn’t do anything but watches. If they enter our yard they will be met with a barrage of sniffs to determine if they are worthy. Then he acknowledges me to see how I react to them.

Situation: Let’s just say this person fucked up big time. Either they did it for shits and giggles then payed the price or did it defending themselves cause they either pepper sprayed my other dogs or posed a threat to me. But if they did hell hath no fury like me scorned. (Insert worst thoughts imaginable here)
A$A$A
Someone did pepper spray my dog, actually.

My dog isn’t mean. He wasn’t attacking anyone. He’s actually very friendly.

VERY. FRIENDLY.

So friendly, in fact, that he decided to shove his way through the door as we opened it and run across the yard at full speed toward the mailman. To shower him with love and kisses, of course!

The mailman didn’t know anything about that. All he knew was that someone’s crazed medium-to-large-sized dog was tearing through the yard, headed directly for him.

So he whipped out his pepper spray.

Poor Schroeder was whimpering and pawing at his eyes, but we knew he would be fine. My parents went out to apologize to the mailman and let him know we weren’t mad. Then, we brought our dog back inside and washed his eyes out.

He kept snorting and squinting and acting like a little drama queen for the rest of the day, but as predicted, he was fine.

There he is trying to take over my chair. What a sneak.

:)
A$A$A
I would be pretty fucking pissed off.

My dog has never once bit anyone, and knowing her, she would give off many, many warning signs before biting. First she would pull her ears back and look away, and start tucking her tail under herself. Then her hackles would raise. Then she would probably growl because you've cornered her and she cannot get away (because trust me, she would rather bolt than bite), and finally bite.

This really shouldn't scream “Threat!” to you, because this is what most dogs will do when they feel threatened unless they feel their life is in immediate danger or have been raised or bred to act a different way.

If I had a dog that actually would bite someone without warning, then I would be a bit more okay with them spraying my dog if she was off-leash and acting aggressive.

I would also be okay if they were spraying my dog when she's off-leash and harassing another dog. (Which she does, when the other dogs in a park are. That's why whenever skirmishes break out with other dogs, she's recalled and leashed until the dogs separate and are calmed down, or one leaves the park.)

See the keyword here? Hint: It's Off-leash. If my dog is on leash, then I am fully capable of getting them under control, and there is no need to spray them unless the leash gets yanked out of my hand. When I take my dog off of her leash, I accept that if my dog is a threat to anyone else, that they are allowed to and going to defend themselves.

Now, if I was in the situation you described, I would be a lot more pissed off. I would be raging mad. My dog is fucking muzzled! The dog cannot hurt you! I would immediately pull out my phone, take their photo, take a licence plate number if I can see it, and call the police. This has to be illegal, and I want them punished.

To further my point, some muzzled dogs are not a danger to you, your child, your pet, or anyone else. Muzzle training is an important thing that some dog owners choose to do. What if your dog is seriously injuried and the vet must muzzle them because they're extremely stressed and at risk of biting? Do you want the muzzle to increase the level of stress and put them at risk for more health problems, or do you want them to see a muzzle as a good, comforting thing, or at least something that isn't to be worried about?

That said, I do not suggest you approach a muzzled dog unless the owner says it's okay, and the dog does not seem to be putting off any signs of distress.

In short, if someone sprayed my off-leash, aggressively-acting dog, then I would probably do nothing else than leash my dog and apologize. If someone sprayed my on-leash, submissive-acting, possibly muzzled dog, I'm taking their picture, recording a licence plate number/address if I can identify it belongs to them, taking their names and phone number if they will give it to me, and calling the police.
A$A$A
Question details say:

I say that's pretty lousy parenting.

Don't teach your kids it's ok to approach strange animals because Mommy’s right behind with the pepper spray to keep them safe.

Teach your kids to be responsible and not approach unknown dogs without their owners’ permission. Period.

If someone were to use pepper spray on my dog? In front of me? With the BS excuse that he was a threat?

They'd have to use pepper spray on me too, because I honestly don't think I could control myself in that situation.
A$A$A
I don’t have my MACE any longer… carried it for years. On the other hand, I DO still have my 50,000 volt stun-gun!

Any fuckah who pepper-sprayed my elderly, peaceful, controllable 15 pound Gryphon… well, let’s just say that certain parts of his or her body would glow in the DARK when I was through with him or her!

That said, IF Gryphon were to actually attack someone, and they struck him or sprayed him… self defense! I’d do my best to haul my dog OFF the person, but they would not face reprisal from me. Gryph is a peaceful dog. It would take something pretty severe to get him to resort to teeth. I would want to know wHAT they could have done to provoke him that severely.
A$A$A
I wouldn't be responsible for my actions.

This is my dog, Ferris. He's half miniture Doberman and half Pekingese. He probably has a few other breeds in him, but I'm not certain.

It's not my lap anymore.

He weighs about fifteen to twenty pounds. This dog is my best friend of three years.

If you pepper spray him, I will impose serious sanctions on your ass:

Approach calmly.

Mid-conversation, plant my fist in your throat with all the force I can manage.

Throw your ass to the ground and start choking you.

Apply pepper spray generously to your eyeballs, which I will hold open.

Shove the canister into your gasping mouth.

Kick you in the ribs a few good times.

Spit on your face.

And then leave with my dog in my arms, calmly wading through the crowd. I will rinse his eyes and give him aspirin.

Later we'll eat some junk food. And I will chuckle to myself and bandage my bloody knuckles.
A$A$A
Probably going to jail shortly after causing this person grievous physical harm and then using their own pepper spray on them.

You have to understand- my dog is a 14 year old medium-small terrier weighing around 30 lbs, with cataracts and a chronic back leg injury that causes him to run with a bit of a limp. He has never harmed anything and has been an amazingly gentle and loving companion for the entirety of his life. I understand some people are afraid of dogs, but Shaggy is a complete non-threat and doesn’t even growl or bark at people aggressively. The only thing nearing aggression for him is the fact that he gets very excited when squirrels run by.

If he were to slip out of the front door one day and walk around the neighborhood (which sometimes happens) and he just walked by a person who immediately decided to pepper spray him, it would be an immediate explosion for me. What reasonable cause would a person have to attack an aging, nearly-blind, friendly small dog? It would be different if I owned a massive and aggressive-seeming dog, but it’s incredibly obvious that Shaggy isn’t dangerous in the slightest.

The one chance that person would have would be to immediately apologize and offer to pay any vet bills he had. If they decided to do something stupid like using the pepper spray on me, they better have good aim because they’re only getting one chance.
A$A$A
Get the best of PetPlace straight to your inbox. Expert Dog Health and Wellness Info. Top Dog and Emergency Care Tips. Latest Dog Product Recalls and Much More.

Fight class from home: REAL LIFE Self-Defense

VIEW, VOTE, SHARE and REPEAT until 1/28/18. Help PetParters select their 2018 Animaltarian. Examples of an Animaltarian include veterinarians that donate their services, rescues, organizations, service dog and therapeutic horses. Let’s help our pet heroes do more for all animals in 2018.

Usually used as a crime deterrent, mace and pepper spray are rarely sprayed on animals. Both have the same effects on dogs and cats as they do on people. They will burn the eyes and mouth.

Treating mace or pepper spray is based on which part of the body is affected. Most animals are sprayed in the face. Treatment consists of attempting to remove the spray by flushing the eyes and mouth with copious amounts of water. Typically, the eyes are stained with fluorescein to determine if there has been any chemical burn to the surface of the eyes.

If your dog has been sprayed with mace or pepper spray, flush his face, mouth and eyes with large amounts of water. This will help reduce some of the pain and remove excess spray. If your dog continues to squint or the eyes tear, veterinary examination is recommended in case the surface of the eyes has been damaged.

Get the best of PetPlace straight to your inbox. Expert Dog Health and Wellness Info. Top Dog and Emergency Care Tips. Latest Dog Product Recalls and Much More.

Get the best of Petplace straight to your inbox. Expert Pet Health and Wellness Info., Top Pet and Emergency Care Tips, Latest Pet Product Recalls and Much More.

Get the best of PetPlace straight to your inbox. Expert Dog Health and Wellness Info. Top Dog and Emergency Care Tips. Latest Dog Product Recalls and Much More.
A$A$A
Was there a threat to a person or another animal? If so the pepper spraying was warranted and I would be grateful the person who took action to diminish injury or loss of property without killing the animal. If my dog was going after livestock, I'd expect it to be shot.

Now, if my well behaved pet was minding its own business on our property and some creep came onto our property and then threatened a member of my family, I’d respond accordingly. Probably starting with a call to the sheriff, and then a warning to the individual and then we’d go from there.

Its a special kind of evil that will unnecessarily harm an innocent animal….but sometimes ill trained animals are a threat to the safety and welfare of people and property. So I guess it depends on the situation.
A$A$A
Honestly I don’t know. I tend to try and avoid conflicts but an unprovoked attack against my dog is still an attack on my family which is an attck on me. Seriously, I don’t know.

I just know that people do really, really stupid things.

For example the other day some lady let her daughter run up quietly behind me and my dog in the dead of night. Then that kid screamed at us at the top of her lungs before running away.

The only reason I didn’t do a reflexive spinning roundhouse to her face (likely killing her in the process) was because my dog was so freaked that he was clawing and biting in every direction, something I had to get under control.

In the midst of trying to get my dog under control, I looked around for the girl’s parents and she was very far away looking lovingly at her kid, not realising that her kid almost died to a full power roundhouse kick or a savage attack from my scared dog.

The epitome of stupid parenting, allowing your kid to do whatever, and leaving other people to pick up the pieces of the mess.
A$A$A
If, as in the example the OP gives, my dog was muzzled and minding his business when another person comes up and sprays him without provocation, then that person is going to the hospital, post haste. The dog is going to the vet, and I'm going to jail.

This is a Beware of Owner situation.

If, however, the dog attacked someone, then that's a different story.
A$A$A
Depends on the situation.

CoCo Ridgeback Hound. She doesn’t bark, she is my service dog

Civilized and Proper Response:

If we are out walking in public, my dog on her lead beside me. I would be upset, take that person’t photo, call 911 and file a complaint for property damage (my dog) and assaulting me.

If my dog was on my property, behind the fence and was attacked, I would call 911 and report the incident and file a complaint for property damage.

If my near waist high dog had left the yard or broken the lead, and was free when sprayed, I would apologize and find out if the sprayer was okay. I would identify myself and exchange contact information with them. Then I get her home ASAP and apply Gojo or Dawn to remove the capsicum

Less Civilized Response:

If we are out walking in public, my dog on her lead beside me. I would be upset, but CoCo would only be hurting not blind. If the person was really terrified, then no real problem. CoCo has long suffering patience (thankfully).

If I judged it be just an idiot power play I would unlimber my

s1 Pepper Spray Gun Starter Kit (Safety Yellow) - Salt Supply Co and defend me and my poor dog.
A$A$A
Well, not my dog, but a stray dog.

An Indian here, so it is common to have stray dogs.

One fine day, at least a decade back, I was at home watching TV or something and suddenly heard a dog wailing and a man running after the poor thing with a stick in his hands and beating the crap out of him/her.

My dad was outside the house getting ready to go to his business place on his scooter, and he witnessed the entire scene and commotion. And, my dad is one hell of animal lover and has always tried to help birds, stray dogs and cats in the past.

So in this particular scenario, my dad grabbed the man and took away his stick and started giving him a piece of his mind. My dad is tall for average an Indian at 6′ and used to very fit at that time, so it scared the man a little and the dog ran away. Upon inquiring, the man told my dad that the dog stole a chicken from his chicken shop (halal chicken shop) and has been repeatedly tried to do so in the past. But, this fine day the man lost it and set on a mission to teach the dog a lesson or something. By meddling in this particular scene my dad probably saved the dog’s life.

My dad paid him his chicken’s worth and tried to persuade the man not to hit stray animals.

P.S. : The complex where my dad’s business place is, has had many dogs for years and there are multiple dog families living around complex.
A$A$A
If pepper spray were legal in the UK I would buy some AND I would definitely use it on unstable dogs who race up to me when out with mine, and I can’t get them to move away.

Irresponsible, rude, arrogant, inept and ignorant owners who don’t bother to perfect their recall, and who don’t care to call their dogs back, who have time and effort to bitch and moan at me because I ask them to call THEIR dog away…what am I supposed to do? I have a dog who has a neurological problem, she’s extremely excitable, she is insecure and deals with it by confronting any dog that comes bounding like an idiot up to us. MY dog WILL growl and will try to make contact with the other dog. THIS behaviour can easily trigger a fight. I also have a recently-neutered male who dislikes entire males. What am I supposed to do if some moron can’t call their dog off and their dog is coming to me? What do I do? Start flying with my non-existent wings? Run faster than Usain Bolt whilst carrying both my dogs? Give their dog a thorough booting with what exactly? And why would I want to even hit a dog? Should I just allow a dog fight? Should I have to get involved in a dog fight? If there was any spray that was sold legally, I most certainly WOULD use it to fend off dogs who just won’t move away, whose owners can’t control them and whose dogs don’t seem to comprehend me or my dogs and they keep coming to me.

I just had this experience last night, and it absolutely made me angry. Why must I contend with assholes who are aggressive, rude, defensive and completely inept, and who can’t be bothered to call their dog off, or at least perfect recall BEFORE THEY LET THEIR DOG OFF? Why must I risk a dog fight? I know what my frenchie does, I try to keep everyone safe. I try to make sure these situations never happen. When I see hyperactive, mad, excited dogs bounding around, I avoid those areas, or those dogs. What am I supposed to do if some asshole can’t control their dog? Who will pay for any vet bills? WHY, if we live in a civilised society, must I tolerate this kind of crap?

Last night this situation unfolded and the owners were rude, threatening and aggressive to me. They were in no rush to call their dog off. I had retreated as far back as possible, and my big sin was to shout: call your dog off! I should have sweetly sang a lullaby and asked using mime for them to do this, maybe? Apparently telling/asking them in a shouting voice because they’re so far away, whilst their dog comes RUNNING UP TO ME AND MY DOGS, was really offensive.

If anyone just randomly attacks a dog with pepper spray they deserve to be imprisoned, or to suffer the same fate. But if a dog is not controlled by his/her owner, and you don’t want the dog right in your face, or in your dogs’ faces, what do you do? I’m not a strapping man, I’m a woman. I’m quite small in size. I don’t have strength like the Hulk. So what gives? The dog always pays the price for the owner’s lack of a brain. But the same dog can either hurt mine, or be hurt by my dogs! I don’t want my dogs to be aggravated by other dogs. These dogs who are ‘friendly’ but terribly excited, are unstable in the dog world. My frenchie hates excitement.

Context is everything.
A$A$A
If this person were doing it to protect themselves, there would be no problem and I would probably end up begging that person to not file a police report. That would never happen, though. Here are my dogs.

They’re small-medium dogs that are more likely to lick you to death than hurt anyone.

So if someone is pepper spraying my dogs it’s for no legitimate reason. As for what I would do……You’ve seen Taken, right?
A$A$A
I’d try to do pretty much what I’d try to do in any other case of being attacked while not outnumbered:

Peace through superior firepower. Deactivate the attacker using physical force, make sure there’s no possibility of retaliation, and call the police to escort them off to arrest.

Such behavior as described in the details deserves nothing less than a broken nose and a time in jail.
A$A$A
It wasn’t pepper spray, but my grandmother and her dog were shot at with a B.B. gun a few days ago. Now mind you, my grandma is 82 and has a Maltese Shih Tzu mix, that she walks several miles with every day around our subdivision. Our subdivision is safe, higher class, but not rich, not the type of place where any crimes are committed, and definitely no shootings; not even with a B.B. gun.

The elderly cremudgeon who shot at them, lives at the end of a cul de sac, one street away. He is that special kind of crotchety asshole, that writes letters to people complaining about their dogs urinating near his property. He even drives around the neighborhood holding a bag of dog poop out the window, looking for home of the dog that left it behind, so he can return it to the proper yard. No joke, I didn’t believe my neighbors stories until I saw it with my own eyes, and received my very own postmarked letter shortly after we moved in. None of us ever leave behind any of our dogs droppings anywhere and we don’t step foot on his property at all. My grandma is friends with his next door neighbor, and they meet up and walk their dogs together.

I didn’t know it was happening and my grandma wasn’t aware it was directed towards her; apparently he has been screaming profanities at her every time she walked to her friends house for over a month. His rantings and ravings were so obscene, my grandma thought he couldn’t possibly be screaming at her, since she did nothing wrong; so she steered clear and ignored him. This time his rantings were punctuated with the firing of his B.B. gun at first aimed at her dog and then at her. My grandma took off and got home as fast as she could, and immediately told me what happened. We called the police, made a statement, filled out a report, and waited for the sheriff to return after he went to his house. He wasn’t arrested, because there was no proof of him threatening her life or intent to harm my grandma and her dog with the B.B. gun.

The next day we were met with a perfectly straight line of poop; blocking our driveway and spanning our entire yard, in the street. I kid you not, I couldn’t make this shit up if I tried. Not that it would have mattered, because he lined up the poop on public property; but I called the sheriff anyway to inform him of the retaliation. The sheriff already knew because the cowardly fuckwit had called him earlier and asked the sheriff to apologize to my grandmother on his behalf. Stated that his actions were childish and inappropriate; and then pressed that it was indeed dog excrement and not human feces.

Now, we purposely walk down his street and it never fails, he opens his garage door and starts screaming when we cross in front of his house; but never on his property. We interrupt, silence, and record him; just waiting for him try it again. Our neighbors rallied with us and we walk there with our dogs and kids in groups and stare him down. He’s such a coward that he goes back inside and hides. A 60+ something year old man should know better than to act so inappropriately.
A$A$A
I would very much like to say I would go temporarily insane and beat the stupid bitch to within an inch of their life. And that would most definitely be my first reaction. My pets are my family and you do not mess with my family! And because they are my family and love them very much, that is also exactly why the idiot would not be killed. The heart wrenching agony I would feel from hearing my boy Buddy crying out in pain would instantly override any other reaction I would want to have because then the most important thing to me is making sure he is alright and I would be doing everything I can to make him feel better. After I get myself under control and get his eyes washed out, then I am calling the police and filing charges against this person who I very much want to kill. My vet is on speed dial so getting medical attention would be very quick. Also my vet loves Buddy just about as much as I do, so she might be bringing a needle as well to euthanize you with. Yes she does make house calls and would meet me where I am if I can not get to her right away because I am now dealing with the police because you just sprayed mace into the eyes of my sweet innocent angel. And you better find a very deep hole to crawl into because if somehow you survive me and the vet, then my friend will without a doubt break every bone in your body once he finds out.

Everything I typed so far is very true about how we all would be feeling. And I pray that somehow we all would hold it together and not do anything extremely drastic. A dog who is trained properly and well is never a threat to anyone and you would never have to defend yourself against him unless you are doing either one or two things. One being entering his home without permission which means you do not have permission from me meaning you are breaking and entering. In that case my dog is the least of your worries. The other being you are threatening a member of my family with harm in which case he is then defending my family. Again my dog would be the least of your worries.

Buddy is a mixed breed that is part Lab, part Boxer, part Australian Cattle, and part Collie. He is also very intelligent, very loyal, extremely affectionate, and I have not encountered anyone yet who has been afraid of him. He just has the kind of personality and that look which has everyone so enamored with him that people go out of there way to meet him and shower him with attention. I absolutely cannot take him out without at least 20 people oohing and aahing over him. And yes he is very well behaved because I am a responsible pet owner and he has learned his lessons very well.
A$A$A
On a visit to my parent’s house a couple of years ago, the two pups that my mother had adopted, a male and female, were merely a few months old.

And she had a trainer come home to teach them how to behave.

I sat on the couch reading the newspaper as I watched the man increasingly lose his patience and swear at them. Yes, he clearly was not a competent professional.

But I held it. I’m not as impatient and easy to rile up as I once used to be.

Eventually he angrily flung a heavy set of keys hard at the female pup's head and the poor little thing yelped around in pain.

That was it as far as I was concerned.

As enraged as I was, I walked up to the asshole, smacked him hard on the side of his head and sneered -

“You have some nerve! To walk into my house and beat my mother’s dogs in front of me? Out of that door. If you don’t leave this very moment, I’ll hit you again and this time, it will not be on the side of your head.”

He quietly gathered his shit up and left.

Now that was someone throwing a mere heavy bunch of keys hard at my mother’s dogs.

Pepper spray my dog in self defence if he lunges at you or attacks you, and I'll be all over him myself in an instant, to pin him down. I'll be thoroughly embarrassed and apologize sincerely to you. Several times over.

But assault him with little or no threat or provocation, and you simply have what’s coming your way. Unless you're armed or a policeman, no I won't stay calm and call the authorities like some other nicer souls.
A$A$A
I’m not a badass. I would probably just jump in front of my dog, take the pepper spray in MY face (ugh) - by instinct, mind you. And then press assault charges. Huge chances of sticking if they’re against me than against “just a dog” anyway. I would probably also try to punch/claw at the assaulter, but I’m betting on the assault charges.

(I didn’t read the details until now, but I’ll let this answer stand: don’t mess with my family)
A$A$A
What would you do if someone pepper sprayed your dog?

If someone pepper sprayed my dog I would do 2 things.

I will clean my dog to get help him out of the irritation.

I will punch that jerk on the face so hard that his teeth pops out

I have a large hound and he is a well mannered dog. He takes hints on how I treat a person and behaves accordingly with them. If I talk to someone properly he will be calm but when I avoid or don’t respond properly to someone he barks and growls. I mentioned barks and growls because he stands his ground and wont attack.

So when someone pepper sprays such a well behaved dog, he/she deserves to experience pain similar or greater than what my dog would experience.
A$A$A
One time, I was walking down the tow path with my dog, near an RNLI station (lifeboats) next to the Thames.

Out of nowhere, this dickhead neighbour (who has accused my dog of peeing on his lawn), runs past into our dogs path on his evening jog, and manages to run into him, even though the path is really wide.

He shouts that he'll kick this f-ing dog, and I get ready to mash him up - I may be 15, but I know for sure I bench more than that skinny prick, and knew I could take him.

Suddenly, this dude from the RNLI, who owns two dogs (also labradors, and the bloke is really nice) starts charging down the stairs of the RNLI building towards this dude.

Now I gotta say, these guys are badass. Most of them are volunteers who give up their spare time to save lives. And they're great people as well, always stopping for a chat whilst theyre going out on exercise.

Anyhow, he storms out, and I see him for the first time, absolutely flaming - and he barks to the guy - “You touch that dog, I'll kick your head in”. He had obviously been listening from the building’s catwalk, and knew my dog for the sweet and innocent thing he was - he only barks when afraid or alone.

The look on the guys face was priceless, and he starts running. I know this isn't my dog getting pepper sprayed, but it fits with the theme of me or any other dog lovers messing up whoever dare harm our babies.
A$A$A
My dog is on a lead all of the time.

She isn't dangerous to anyone. Loves kids, has been socialised with them a lot.

Isn't keen on dogs, but would never actually bite one (yes, I have proof, she has been attacked more than once, and never bitten). She just wants dogs to stay away, so puts on a big show if they are near. If they get closer she goes quiet and confused.

So my dog is always always on a lead. We don't have a garden, so she couldn't even escape it with no lead on.

So if someone knowingly and willingly hurt my dog?

I'd hurt them. Like a lot.
A$A$A
Stop my dog from eating the remains of the corpse, so the poor fellow who sprayed my dog could at least be identified and have a proper funeral.

Now, seriously, if you see my dogs you wouldn’t really want to upset any of them. They’re laid back, positive souls - but their total weight is more than 180 kg of pure muscle. And they love each other.
A$A$A
If my dog were truly muzzled, like some are to prevent them from eating stuff people throw on the ground (this is more common than it is for aggression). I’d likely call the police. It causes pain and in some dogs a severe reaction. It is cruel and in my state that nasty bitch could be arrested for animal cruelty. I’d use my phone to take a pic of her and pics of my dog in order to document the incident. I’d probably sue her myself too if water didn't solve my dog’s problem. She would have to pay for the vet bills.

I have been called as a witness in a case dealing with a client before and my credibility based on my credentials would mean that anyone who mistreated my dog would not fare well in court. I teach classes to law enforcement on how to handle dogs rather than shooting them ( it is only necessary in a most a handful of cases). That also would be problematic for someone who hurts my dog.
A$A$A
No one has ever sprayed one of my dogs, but I did have a neighbor kick my dog violently on my property. When I again became aware of what I was doing, he was on the ground with my knee in his throat (I’m 6′2″, 260#) and my cocked handgun pressed to his forehead. Thank God I became aware again in time. It was only the second time in my life that I have been truly angry, including 26 months in combat.
A$A$A
I threatened a 6ft 2 bloke who tried to kick my dog once and I marched up to him and threatened him telling him I was an off duty copper and would break his F**** G neck if he ever raised his foot to any of my dogs again. I am 5 ft 5 and I scared the shit outta him. I totally lost it.

So, I hate to think what I would do.. probably grab it, kick them where it hurts and spray them in the face then ram the empty can inside their mouth.

HA! Peace and love! :)
A$A$A
Slap her, hard (there’s a difference between an open handed slap and a punch in most states), and take her pepper spray away and spray her thoroughly, see how she likes it, then call the cops and explain that this person pepper sprayed me and my dog, so I defended myself.

As I am a female senior citizen, I suspect the police would not be very impressed with her or her excuses. She picked the wrong bitch to spray!
A$A$A
That would be a tough situation because I'd be torn between understanding their fear of dogs, and wanting to pepper spray them in the face!

I love dogs! I used to have two pitbulls and they were the best dogs you'd ever know; despite all of the negative reactions I got when people found out I owned pits.

However, not all dogs are friendly! It can be really hard to determine the difference between a dog who wants love and attention, and a dog who wants to eat your face, when their bounding at you at super fast speeds! Your instints would take over and you might do something impulsive to save yourself, only to find out it was uncalled for!

I would be angry, and if my dog was doing nothing wrong, I would be pissed. However, if it was a situation where they may have been scared I would understand!
A$A$A
I’d try my best to kill them.

This is Gizmo and he’s my nans dog. I frequently help look after him. I’m going to be honest, he’s the best thing in my life and I love him. Whenever I’m feeling down, he’s there to make everything better. And someone would purposefully try and hurt him?

I’d like to say: If he was ok, I’d try my best to kill them. If he wasn’t, I’d get him to a vet for urgent care.

But I think i’d struggle to stop all 5’2 of myself trying to hurt them.
A$A$A
In the case described in the comments, it would be awkward to act angry, since there is an idiot mother with her kid. I would try to make her feel horrible though.

I would hug my dog, who would be probably crying from pain and make her look evil in front of her child. I would try to make her cry, not only out of revenge, but to try and teach the kid that what the mother did was wrong. I don’t want another animal torturer in this world, and if it takes a kid seeing his mother crying to achieve this, then so be it.
A$A$A
Well, if it was one of my 3 miniature Dachshunds, I would say “what the hell is wrong with you?” and make it clear that legal action would occur if it happened again. On the other hand, if it was my Shepherd mix rescue dog that passed on a few years back, I'd probably be far more understanding. He was normally a sweet, lovable dog, but there were times when what I called his “previous life” flashed back to him and he got a little aggressive with people he didn't know, and I was never able to completely train it out of him since he was already around 5 (human years) old when we adopted him. In any case, pepper spray isn't fatal or permanently harmful to humans or dogs, but it should never be used simply for amusement purposes, or if you're scared of any and all dogs no matter their size/behavior.
A$A$A
Whoever did it would find their nuts in their throat. If it was a woman, it would be one of the few times I would hit a woman. I would take the can of pepper spray and spray them repeatedly in the face and ask them how it felt. I’d hold down the button until it ran out. Don’t ever cause harm to me, my family, or my pets. You’ll be carried out on a stretcher if you do.

My dogs are very friendly, loving, very playful, and have never attacked anybody. They love everyone and other dogs. I also supervise them very well and control them when we’re on walks or at the dog park. I don’t let them jump on people, I don’t let them bother people at the dog park, I closely watch as they play with other dogs to make sure nothing gets too carried away. There would be no reason to pepper spray them.
A$A$A
It depends. If my (fictional) large dog was aggressive to that person without provocation, I would do nothing-except profusely apologize to that person. IF, on the other hand, the dog was in my yard and someone on the other side of the fence secure sprayed him, that person had better run for his life. If, on the OTHER hand (I have three hands), someone such as a meter reader or mail man felt legitimately threatened, I’d not be pleased about it but it’s not like pepper spray is lethal and a persons safety/welfare is more important than a dogs regardless. So I would do nothing except wash my dogs eyes out as best I could and try to make arrangements for my dog to not be in the yard at the time the other person normally arrives.
A$A$A
Please understand that some of us don't like dogs. In my case, they've bitten me so I'm afraid of them. Not only that, but I have OCD. For me, a dog licking me is as gross as fecal matter. Yes I know pets are cleaner than humans. But they still gross me out. On one occasion, I was in a van sitting in the back seat (you can say trapped) and even though I politely told the lady that I was afraid of dogs and to please keep it away from me (without saying that they gross me out) she let her dog run towards me and it licked me. The lady started laughing. I FELT VERY ANGRY. If I would've punched her on her face I would've been sent to jail. So I sat wanting to cry and my heart was beating very fast. It's not fair.
A$A$A
As someone who has pepper sprayed many dogs in my career, I consider myself a “responsible” pet owner with my own dog. I would never subject my dog to the possibility of being sprayed by following the law and keeping my dog leashed and away from people I don’t know. Dogs that are sprayed are usually running loose, acting aggressive and posing a threat to my safety. 99% of the time I would rather spray the pet owner for being so stupid and careless with their pet - it’s usually not the dog’s fault! Also, many times I have had an aggressive dog come at me, only to turn and run once I pull the can of pepper spray out and shake it.

Once bitten(sprayed), twice shy.
A$A$A
Okay. I feel I must answer this one. The guy who pepper sprays my dog is going to quickly understand two things. one: he has just assaulted a member of my family and two: he WILL answer to me.

He will then more then likely pepper spray me in self defense. Assuming this is on public land but its also important to note that he started this drama and now he has escalated it.

I’m going to borrow someone elses answer to another question, one thats related.

“Extremely effective-- it can actually burn their noses and permanently affect their sense of smell, more so than humans. It would be the equivalent of using phosgene gas on humans.” written by Aamoy Gupta, works at Ip Infusion.

So. Now this person has just crippled a member of my family. I know what I should do. Call the Police and take my dog to the vet so she can get looked at so I can make sure he or she will be okay.

Now there is what I’d ‘like’ to do. I’d ‘like’ to hunt him down and beat him within an inch of his life until he begs me to stop. I’m talking breaking over a dozen bones and leaving ‘him’ as a cripple.

However I can’t do that. Because I am not the law and thats not my way.

Shep
A$A$A
If someone drew a weapon (pepper spray though less than lethal has been used to facilitate lethal and potentially lethal crimes) I can only assume their threat to my dog is to prevent my dog from defending me. I would draw and invite them to drop the weapon. We would back away and change course. If the aggressor with the pepper spray pursued we would do our best to avoid them, but if unable and they continued to assault us with the threat of pepper spray, I would stop the threat.

If caught off guard and someone just hosed my dog as we were passing on a public trail, I'd tie the dog off and pursue the person, record any vehicle or building they went into and then call the police. I would press animal cruelty charges to the full extent of the law and blast them on social media including their license plate and or address. Plenty of dog owners and lovers in the world, many with far less self control than me. . .
A$A$A
“I read a story on another site about how someone in a park had a kid approach their muzzled dog, and out of nowhere the mother comes up and sprays their dog in the face. Her excuse was “The dog is muzzled, so it must be dangerous! I wasn’t going to wait for it to hurt my child!” How would you react?”

I don’t know that I’d be in that exact situation, but…

One, I’m not sure I’d let someone get close enough to attack my dog.

Two, I’d probably physically detain her and call the police.

She’d be paying the vet bills. She should have her CHILD under control. I don’t let children come up to my dogs if they do not ask nicely first. My dogs are safe, but kids don’t know that, and they need to learn. So she is at fault in that way first.

Secondly, she used a punitive, violent measure when no offense had been committed. That makes her a dangerous attacker.
A$A$A
I nearly had this happen. I lived next to a VERY aggressive, VERY rude, likely racist man for the last many months. We lived in townhouses that mirror’d. His back patio was a few feet from mine.

One day after work, I let my dog out of her crate and she BARRELED down the stairs to the back door. I put on her leash as she paced, clearly having to pee, and opened the sliding glass door.

INSTANTLY she starts barking and bolting. I yank her back as my neighbor starts cussing and screaming at us. She hadn’t seen him and ran out as she always does only to nearly run into a near 400lb black man. She’s done barking and over doing her business on the far side of my lot. He is not done barking” however and continues talking about my “bitch” and how I better keep better hold or he will kill her.

Mind you, I’m not a violent person in general. But it took EVERY bit of me not to reach into my pocket, pull my service knife, and carve his heart out. I apologize and explain she was startled. His UTTERLY worthless hen of a wife pipes up from the upstairs window “spray that bitch” and throws down pepper spray to the ground. At this point my dog is STILL on the far side of MY lawn from us, not barking. I tell him to “calm down, now.” So he walked onto MY property and bumped his chest to me, trying to intimidate me again, threatening to kill my “bitch”. At this point, my dog is watching from a few feet away, not making a sound.

I smiled knowingly at him, trying so hard to not smirk in his face, and told him to remove himself from my property or he would not have to worry about my dog barking being a problem.

Hen called cops. I went inside and called them as well, explaining I had been “assaulted” and “threatened”. When the cops arrived I explained my call was simply to inform them, not to charge him, but that the next time he entered my property for any reason whatsoever, I would kill him and I would wait to call them until I was certain he had completely run dry. They nodded and explained they would prefer I didn’t, but that my warning to him and to them was understood and he would not bother me again.

Had he grabbed the pepper spray, that last threat would have been my police statement.

Never. Ever. Mess with a man’s dog. We value them as we would our own children.
A$A$A
Given the circumstances I’d call the police on the woman. Regardless of which breed the dog was.. it was wearing a muzzle and in no way showing threatening behaviour. And its not like it COULD have used those teeth on the kid regardless as the muzzle was on! And well - nowhere in what you write did the dog do anything to make it seem a threat.

If the woman was so worried she should have ensured the kid kept away instead. Under the circumstances it seems more like she just wanted an excuse to hurt an animal that was unable to protect itself. Hence calling the police for cruelty to animals.
A$A$A
I have had 4 dogs. And thankfully nothing like that has ever happened. But if it happened, I would have to calm myself down, cuz the first I would think of, was to kick the SOB´s ass so hard he would land in the next parish.

But you learn as you live, and today one of the first things I would try to, was to judge the person. If it was a mental challenged, it would help me to calm down, and I would probably just try to get away from the whole scene.

If he was normal, and just came with a stupid reason, it would depend on the situation what I would do. If he didn´t show any signs of remorse, I would probably kick his butt.

I always try to avoid violence, as I dont like it.But there are times where its almost impossible to avoid. And then I would take care of my dog of course, get some water sprayed into his eyes, so the damn stuff could be flushed out.

This is Gonzo, my last dog. I miss him.
A$A$A
That all depends because I'm not an idiot and my dog is, he has attacked several other dogs because he must have some kind of inferiority complex. In short if my dog deserved it I would make amends, if he just attacked my dog for nothing I think I would feel very threatened and have to show him what a compact .45 looks like and ask him gently to drop his weapon…then call the cops, and god help the fucking regard if he turns it on me, I have no record and a legal right to carry a firearm.

If there were more consequences for wronged actions I wouldn't need to be armed. Now switch weapons and see how the scenario goes.

Fyi: get a tank of bear mace and y'all have a go at it.
A$A$A
Depends why this was done. Someone with a child MIGHT be legitimately afraid of my 70 pound lab/collie mix…always on a leash….but….

IF that person did this gratuitously….with no reason whatever….

I would simply kill everything she loved. One by one, piece by piece, bit by bit…starting with the small things (her job) and moving ever forward until there was nothing left but a smoking hole in EVERYONE’s brain who ever knew this person, her family, and of her existence. Every micrometer of their nervous tissue would feel like MILES of slick, hot, pavement. Their babies would scream as if fed through blue hot rollers. Even….

AFTER I shook my head of this terrible fantasy….

I think grabbing the pepper spray would be the first move. Inquiries would follow.
A$A$A
It depends on the circumstances. If my dog was to get out and actually threaten people (fat chance of that since I have a Sheltie, but let’s imagine for a moment he’s a Mal) I couldn’t blame them. But pepper spraying any dog of mine for less than that? The retribution would be severe and ongoing.
A$A$A
The law is pretty clear in my state. You’re not allowed to use deadly force to protect property, which dogs fall under.

If I could, I would maneuver myself into the stream. That changes it from animal abuse/harm to property to assault, possibly aggravated assault, then press charges.
A$A$A
Prevention is always key with avoiding or stopping such things. My dogs do not go outside alone. I live next to a busy alleyway and many people are just ignorant. I have pitbulls so I am always concerned about them being misunderstood or doing exactly what the sterotype says they will. Either way, if someone ever tried to hurt them, it's not the dogs that others need to fear. It's me.
A$A$A
Prolly call PETA so they'd sensationalize it and the guy would lose any reputation he had as a non dog pepper sprayer.

Though given that emotions might run high, I might hold him down and pepper spray him repeatedly. In the pants.
A$A$A
How I would react and the proper way to react might vary. I would identify her as a threat and move to take away the mace. I highly doubt this would involve any hitting but it may involve pushing. There is a good chance that adrenaline and frustration would get to me and I would use a few choice words while venting. My attention would almost immediately fall on my dog. I would look for a water source to minimize his pain/irritation. It is then I would call the police to file a report. While waiting for police I would try to gather any witness information that I could. I would also call my dad as he is an attorney and gives great advice. Odds are I would not even think about taking pictures (great idea) but I’m sure about an hour later when talking to my mom or brother it would get brought up and I would be kicking myself for not doing it.
A$A$A
I will defend my dog as I would any family member or friend. I will get my dog to safety, and to a vet for treatment. Then report the crime to the police. Animal cruelty is a criminal offense in Canada. It can be punishable with up to five years in prison. While you can use pepper spray to defend yourself against wild animals, discharging one in the city against a small dog may be legally questionable, and may bring separate weapon related charges.
A$A$A
Let me start off by saying my dog isn’t aggressive so I see no valid reason why someone would even think about having to defend against my dog or just flat out spray her with mace. The one time she did attack someone was completely on my behaflf. I was maybe about 13 or 14 and I was home alone just me and my dog (a boxer btw). Some random drunk dude was just in my back yard holding an empty bottle and cursing at me for who knows what reason. But anyway he continued to get closer and closer to my back door and I was of course scared asf so I did the only rational thing I could think of. I let my big ass dog out and she tackled his ass. Nothing serious just scared him a little bit just enough for him to run off and never come back. Well now I am a grown ass man who can defend myself and she’s an elderly dog so she’s not as fit as she used to be. If you are good to your dog then your dog will be good to you. Its like an equal exchange when you first meet your dog “you protect me, I take care of you”. So if someone were to pepper spray my dog on purpose, well that agreement comes into play and I’ll beat their ass because if I were to be attacked/threatened by some random stranger my dog would definetely do the same for me. I’ll accept the charges but they won’t be what I’m thinking about when my innocent dog has been injured.
A$A$A
If I owned an aggressive dog that escaped confinement, I’d be grateful that my dog was ONLY pepper sprayed as opposed to being blasted from here to Christmas by a 10-guage shotgun.

If I caught someone pepper-spraying my miniature dachshund….. They’d best stay out of striking range.
A$A$A
That depends. I’ve owned quite a few pit-bulls in my lifetime. The only time my dogs ever reacted violently was when they believed that I was in danger.

If my dog, yet again, attacked other dogs at the dog park and deserved the pepper spray, I’d apologize, again, and leave the area quickly.

If I was in danger, while also fearing for my life, I’d offer the ‘KILL’ command, hope the aggressor didn’t carry bear spray, and defend my dog to the death……
A$A$A
Honestly, it depends. If my dog did something that actually put someone’s safety at risk, I would apologize for his actions then take him to wash it out.

If it was completely unwarranted? The rest of that pepper spray container would get sprayed directly down that persons throat.

The situation described in the comments btw is unwarranted use.
A$A$A
If someone pepper sprayed my dog for no apparently good reason, I would take a cell phone photo / video of the mother for evidence and then immediately take my dog for possible medical care and deal with the urgent situation. Then I would look up animal cruelty laws and related statutes in my city and state and consider filing a law suit against the mother if there was a legal basis for doing so. I would attempt to recover my vet bills plus emotional harm.
A$A$A
Call the cops on the person who pepper sprayed my dog, get my dog veterinarian attention…and sue the guy who pepper sprayed my dog so he has to pay my dog’s vet bill, AND he has to do community service. If he does it again? Kick the crap out of him. Literally.
A$A$A
To all dog owners here: Yes you have the right to “attack” whomever “attacked” your dog, but only if you are absolutely sure that your dog didn't do anything wrong. But your dogs aren't always perfect little angels.

One afternoon, I was walking to the supermarket. The only way to this supermarket is a narrow path. Suddenly, a dog gets off the yard of a house and starts chasing me and barking at me. His barking would attract other dogs too, so three dogs appeared, barking at me and chasing me. I managed to get off, and go to the supermarket. When I was going back home, the same dog started yapping again and getting ready to chase me. I always carry a little bottle of water with me, so I threw some on his face,so that he would stop attacking me. He stopped and I was about to leave, but his owner ran out, yelling at me because “ I got his poor baby wet and scared” and that he would call the police on me. Some dog owners really have a nerve.
A$A$A
Apparently there is more to this question, something about the kid coming up to the dog, whatever. First of all a good parent teaches a child not to approach a dog, let him approach you. Secondly, if someone maced my dog I would mace them back and they would be lucky if that’s all I did. I have an arsenal in my house for protection and if someone hurt anyone in my family, including my 4 legged family it would get real ugly. There are 2 things that make me from nice to angry in .001 seconds. Animal abuse and child abuse. And also let me add that just because someone is a child, doesn’t give them the right to abuse an animal. That is the parents fault and they would be dealt with accordingly.
A$A$A
My little Pomeranian is near harmless. Sure, Shannon’ll bark, but she won’t bite unless provoked.

I have a really bad temper that I have a hard time controlling, so little things get on my nerves easily. Doing anything to harm my dog or my cats would result in blind anger.

If someone pepper sprayed her out of defense, I’d snap her lead back on and tug her back, apologizing profusely. But if it was out of pure spite for my dog, I’d be pissed.

My tiny-ass 4′11 self would be pummeling every bit I could reach in a blind fit of rage. The most I could do is leave a few bruises and hopefully some hurt pride. However, I’m usually never without my closest friends. Try fending off six people in ranging sizes at once.

Don’t hurt my fucking dog without good reason.
A$A$A
1st I’d perform a citizens arrest, then shout to someone else to get on the blower to the rozzers.

Pepper spray is illegal to own in the UK so carrying it and using it would land you with a potential prison sentence.

I’d also shout someone to take a look at my dog and make sure they were not suffering too much.

I’ve owned 2 dogs in the past (well, my parents did) and they never snapped at anybody. One of them didn’t even chase cats
A$A$A
Jack, a 1/2 German Shepherd mix, is not the friendliest dog in the world to strangers. This would be circumstance-driven. Were the circumstances such that the fellow was in fear of being bitten, and Jack was acting in an aggressive manner, then I’d think the fellow might well be justified and that might be something I’d do myself.

However, should some fellow come up to my fence and spray the dog with no reason, I’d arrest him for “cruelty to animals” and prosecute his sorry butt.
A$A$A
Me? Depends on person. I'm not the strongest person, so of course, if it was a person probably weaker than me, I would attack said person with any weapon I can get my hands on. I'm a cat person, but I do love my dog dearly. If my dog is hurt, the attacker will get attacked, BRUTALLY and without mercy.
A$A$A
It would depend entirely on why and where they pepper-sprayed my dog.

If I, as a pet owner, was not responsible enough to see that my dog doesn’t bother people who are simply trying to walk down the road undisturbed (leash, fence around my yard), and they chose to pepper spray him, it would be my fault.
A$A$A
If someone pepper sprayed my dog, I’d pepper spray them back. There are very few situations I would ever find this acceptable. Having said that, my dog is my life & saved me from myself, therefore I will always go down fighting for her. We recently went to a local leash-free park and a man there kicked at my girl because she sniffed at his on-leash dog. I told him with much restraint that if he had actually connected his foot with a single hair, I’d have floored him.
A$A$A
I would fucking grab that shit, and spray the fuck out of it on the mom. Then, I'd spray it once ( press on it once ) on the child. Why? He's the one who walked near my dog.

Yes, it's not his fault. But I would show the mom how it feels when someone randomly sprays one of your family members. (I consider any pets I have, as my family).
A$A$A
What an idiot. I would have kicked her down as a reflex. That’s a terrible attack on an innocent and helpless animal, and unbearable to me. And it’s incredibly stupid. I couldn’t stay calm with such behaviour or even think anymore. Sorry.

What a story! If that filthy brat approached the dog, then that was more of an attack than the dog ever made. Shouldn’t she have sprayed her kid then?
A$A$A
The only reason I would tolerate my dog being pepper sprayed is if she decided to attack for no apparent reason. Other than that, you had better run for your life...and fast.
A$A$A
The question is moot in my case. My dogs are pampered, and closely supervised 24/7. I would never let them get into a situation where they might be pepper sprayed. But, if anyone ever hurt my two defenseless dogs, in any way, I would clobber the hell out of them. My dogs are small, and totally harmless.
A$A$A
If someone pepper-sprayed my dog, I would suppress my desire to strangle them and instead do my best to get the pepper spray out of their hands and spray them in the face. That’s all.
A$A$A
I'd take him to the vet.

Of course. I'd be tempted to take the pepper spray off them and spray them.

My argument would be they might spray me next, so better safe than sorry.

I certainly wouldn't be doing it to teach them a lesson.

That would be wrong.
A$A$A
I walk my 8 lb, 1 y/o shi tzu puppy on a regular basis on a paved trail near my house, and I carry my 100,000v stun gun for THIS exact reason. I would not hesitate to make someone piss themselves on the pavement if they hurt my Rosie. People can go blind from pepper spray.
A$A$A
I actually had this happen. My dog was in my yard and the postman came. I walked out to get the mail from him and went back in the house. He walked back into my front yard although he had no reason to do so and pepper sprayed my little dog who was confined to my backyard.

I called and explained the situation to the post office. I don’t know what action they took.

Believe me, if it had been anyone than a government employee I think I would have cheerfully beaten him to a bloody pulp.
A$A$A
I would say that I’d shoot them with a nail gun, but that’s not how nail guns work. The way nail guns work, they’re one of the safest power tools you can buy. Also, why would I have a nail gun with me when walking my dog? So, I’d likely punch them in the face to no avail. I’m rather small.
A$A$A
Check my dogs first. Then, depending on where they did it, I would call the police. If it was while my dogs were at home, that means the assailants trespassed. That wouldn't happen though. I would find dead intruders.

Out on a walk, it wouldn't be a fair fight. My dogs are muzzled and leashed. So no reason to do that at all.

If I am not feeling rather charitable that day, I would not be turning the other cheek. I would more than likely tether my dogs and then pepper spray won't be the only thing they are worried about, I mean why pepper spray my dogs?

If an old lady did that, I would not hurt her physically, but I might mention something about sin, forgiveness and hellfire for her bitchy self if she doesn't repent.
A$A$A
This is my baby Clifford.

He is a dachshund

By the time I was finished they would be shorter than he.
A$A$A
Speaking only for myself, I would turn myself into the authorities after I unleashed a major ass kicking on whoever was sick enough to do anything like this. Seeing the court system couldn't care less about dogs, cats or any other animals, I would choose to deal with the scum that hurt my pet, myself, then the courts can deal with me.
A$A$A
I’d grab that can of spray and beat it relentlessly into their face.

This is Fritz…

He is sweet. He is mischef causing and a little stinker, but he’s a great dog. He loves everyone. He is a miniature schnauzer.

Anyway, I would probably get him to the vet. Poor lil’ guy.
A$A$A
This is my dog. He would probably die from fright if someone pepper sprayed him.

The person who sprayed him will be soon to follow.

What would you do if someone pepper sprayed your dog?
A$A$A
If you are thinking about doing this,don't! My dog is small,elderly and half blind,already.It could push her into respiratory arrest and you too,because that can would be inserted rectally,so far up,that you would spray pepper everytime you spoke! It would be worth an assault charge,as we would both be charged with assault!
A$A$A
Human-grade self-defense sprays are not usually injurious nor effective on Dogs, but if placed in the same situation I would put enough distance between that fucking moron and her spray-can as possible before she decided that she ought to spray ME as well… then I would make sure my Dog was OK…
A$A$A
I would personally like to set them on fire, but since I’m not confident that I would get away with such a reasonable and justified act, I’d probably try to figure out their schedule, then when I see them again, I’d use some Fox lab pepper spray on them. The law says I can use pepper spray if I feel I need to protect myself or protect somebody else, so I’d have that going for me, I guess.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
Is personal use of police databases culturally tolerated as long as there is no trouble?
A$A$A
I think personal use of CJ databases is tolerated less than when I was a cop in the 1980s, but it's still done.

It has always been possible to track the use of CJ databases. For example, a few years back, a female Florida Highway Patrol trooper arrested a Miami police officer for speeding. The Miami officer was in an assigned patrol car, but was driving over 100 MPH to get to an extra off-duty job. In the ensuing weeks, the trooper's driver's license record was accessed many times by curious cops, or those contemplating some type of retribution (there was a minor war between the FHP and the MPD until their bosses told them to knock it off). The trooper filed a complaint, and review of the system logs showed all the times her license had been run without any legitimate reason to do so.

At my former agency, terminals were usually left open, so that anyone who walked up to one could run all the inquiries they wanted. There would have been no practical way of knowing who had run any particular inquiry. I know I looked up friends and people I knew and had lost track of. I know of one cop who amused himself by looking up the drivers license and criminal history records of celebrities. There was never any kickback to this, at least not while I was there. I don't think it occurred to anyone that there was anything wrong with this, so long as the system wasn't being used for personal gain.

Starting in the 1990s, the FBI (which "owns" the NCIC system, the largest of these databases) started prosecuting cops who accessed the system unlawfully. More often than not, someone or several someones would be selling information to private investigators and attorneys who wanted to get dirt on people. Abut once a year, there would be a story about a ring of cops and dispatchers going to jail for unlawful use of the CJ database.

Now, most places, access is more tightly controlled. Cops, dispatchers, and records personnel can still (usually--this depends on department policies) access the system as they choose, but each inquiry is tied to their identifier. If there is a stink about improper use of the system, it's a lot easier to trace this to a specific person.

Having access to these databases is hugely tempting. I've lost track of the number of times someone outside of law enforcement asked me to find out if their uncle was really a felon, or if their daughter's boyfriend had a suspended license. These weren't bad, evil people. They just wanted to know.

There can be some instant bad karma for misuse of the system. When Patty Hearst was a federal fugitive in the 1970s, some curious person in a comm center in San Jose decided to run her name on NCIC. The center had a call from the FBI within five minutes, wondering if some cop had stopped Patty Hearst. Note to self: do not run people on the Ten Most Wanted List unless they are standing in front of you.

So, to answer your question, this practice can be culturally tolerated, but that is dependent on the local culture. In some agencies, you could probably do it for a long time and have no one notice. In others, you might get suspended or fired for using the system without a good reason.
A$A$A
I don't believe you can draw any conclusions about this type of incident from one single news report.  As noted in the report, two of the three officers involved in the incidents were punished.  The third reportedly believed the request for information was made by an authorized person (although Illinois prohibits release of the information to a tow truck operator).  The main point of contention in the article, from what I read, was that a civilian oversight committee believed the punishment for these violations was not harsh enough. 

Your source specifically noted:

Generally, the report said, the misuse of law enforcement databases was not widespread in the Denver Police Department, which has about 1,440 sworn officers.

This, to me, specifically refutes your comment that the abuse is relatively common.

Even if using the databases for personal reasons is accepted abuse in Denver, it is certainly not accepted in my agency.  Officers in my agency (and every other police agency in Illinois) receive annual training on the use of available police databases, including discussion about the serious legal repercussions of engaging in this type of abuse.  When these violations are discovered, officers are punished, typically with unpaid suspensions.  Some officers with other problems have also been fired from their jobs.  It is not taken lightly.

It is not extremely difficult to find evidence of ongoing improper use of the databases, although it may require tedious sorting of data.  An officer who runs several license plate numbers or driver's license inquiries at 4 am is probably not doing so as a result of running traffic in the area.  As J.M. Bee noted in his answer, it could be difficult for me to explain why I ran a particular license plate at a particular time and date, but that doesn't mean I didn't have a valid, legal reason for doing so.

I will add that friends have asked me to "check up on someone" over the years.  I have never used official police records to do any checking, but will often refer those friends to the local Circuit Clerk's webpage.  That site provides open inquiries into criminal, civil, and traffic court cases for every person who has been through the local court system.

Edit:  I saw this on the 'web today: 

Car Rental Employee Texts Girl's Emergency Contact Number Asking For A Date
A$A$A
I used to be responsible for the radio room at the New Orleans Division Office. Around 2004, NCIC cracked down on accessing database information without justification. One of the major offenders was the system maintained by the Louisiana State Police, which was one of the systems we could access. In order to maintain our access, we had to implement annual training concerning authorized use and maintain a log of queries which could be compared with the electronic audit trail.

In the old days, the single coppers (I imagine some of the married ones, too) routinely ran their girlfriends to make sure they weren't dating felons or crazies. One of my girlfriends was an executive secretary at a local bank. She ran my credit shortly after we started dating to make sure I wasn't a "flake." Fair is fair.
A$A$A
No, it's not tolerated as much anymore.  I know of an officer who recently got fired for running people without a good reason for doing so.  He ran an ex girlfriend who broke up with him for stalker behavior. He also ran all of her ex boyfriends, her family, and pretty much any female he thought was attractive.  She was a cop at another agency.  Her agency was in the middle of updating their employee files and realized another agency was running her repeatedly.  They had the state locate the terminal and he got fired.  Turns out he had been running all of the female employees at his agency too.  All of the important stuff like criminal histories ran is audited every year and turned into the state. 
A$A$A
Using it to get money, at least here, is a felony.  Any personal use is a termination level offense.  And terminations do happen.

While modest personal use happens, in my experience it's fairly uncommon anymore, as your chances of getting away with it have gone way down.  That did not used to be the case as much, and modest personal use typically was ignored.  Today, at least in my area, most people seem to follow the rules.
A$A$A
No, it is not tolerated, but it is also extremely hard to discover. It's really a classic security issue:  Really securing the databases to a point which could prevent misuse by officers would make the system too difficult to access for legitimate purposes. Using the DB for personal reasons is one of those crimes which you are 90% sure you could get away with, but the consequences are severe enough that it's still a stupid risk.
A$A$A
Three events out of MILLIONS of queries?  Hardly an epidemic.

I can't speak for everybody, but all access is logged, and there are audits. There is virtually no way I would know what you were querying, or if it were work related or not. So I can't speak for tolerance since I am not privy to the audit data.

We do have regular, mandated training regarding systems access, so if someone gets 'caught' they can't whine about it afterwards. 
A$A$A
In my agency personal use of any information available is absolutely not tolerated. We track and log EVERYTHING. All employees are required to sign and adhere to confidentiality rules and policies. If a breach is reported it is immediately investigated. If found to be true the offending employee is subject to an array of sanctions including termination. We don't play with this.
A$A$A
No, and in many cases it's a felony to use NCIC for personal use.  Using an in-house database is probably not governed by state laws (not sure of CO law), but I can assure you it's a policy violation of some sort.  It's always frowned on and punishment will be dealt out.  You can bet on that.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
How many people in America have successfully stopped a home invasion or saved their own lives by using a gun compared to how many have died through the improper use of guns (e.g. domestic violence, accidents, suicides, murders)?
A$A$A
Depending on who you ask, numbers range from 1.3 to 2.5 million per year. I would estimate that this number is far higher, since some people never fire a shot to deter a criminal, and then never tell the police. I know people who have done this.

However, in the U.S. actual home invasions and muggings and other “contact crimes” are very low compared to other western countries. I like to think of guns as a vaccine. Criminals know that citizens are armed, but they don’t know which ones, so they aren’t willing to gamble. It’s well known that simply walking into a bank and saying that you’re armed will get you a few thousand dollars. (I'm a retired bank robber. AMA! • /r/IAmA) Why break into a home for far less money and much higher chance of getting shot?

Of course, just like the anti-vaxxers who think that vaccines are worse than the diseases they prevent, contrary to every piece of scientific evidence ever, there are people that think that no one needs guns for whatever reason. Many crimes simply aren’t committed because criminals know better.

That’s not to say that these things don’t happen. Last month, my sister-in-law was home alone with her year old son, when she heard a man trying to door knob. He was arrested later that day. Last week, and woman at my apartment complex was raped. These things happen, and the police can’t always get there in time.

Accidents do happen from the improper use of guns, though. Fortunately, these occurrences are very rare. Just about every household accident possible is more likely than a gun death (How Common Are Child Gun Accidents?). It’s also important to remember that for every 100 responsible gun owners, there is 1 that is not responsible. 78–80% of the murders in the US are related to drug dealing, and these people do not get their guns legally. They are also irresponsible with their guns, and drive up these statistics.

Accident rates related to pools, motor vehicles, and alcohol use are all far, far higher than gun accident rates and no one wants to ban those things, even though they aren’t as useful (even cars, although I suppose there’s an analogy in there about just using public transportation instead of owning a car just like how some people think that calling the police when a bad guy is in your house is acceptable).

I would argue that lives saved from gun use is orders of magnitudes larger than lives lost due to accidents.

I probably use these statistics in every gun answer I write, but here they are again:

CPRC in Fox News: Police are extremely Law-abiding, but concealed handgun permit holders are even more so - Crime Prevention Research Center

Don't blame crime on legal gun owners

If legal gun owners are that unlikely to to commit crimes, then it stands to reason that they are just as responsible when it comes to preventing accidents. Illegal gun owners, however, are not, and more gun laws aren’t going to stop them.
A$A$A
Impossible to calculate.  First off, why are suicides always thrown in?  If someone wants to commit suicide, they find a way.  In fact, just recently I was reminded that the gun control study commissioned by the Clinton Administration and performed by the National Academy of Sciences found only one statistically significant effect in all the gun control laws they studied:  The five-day waiting period affected the METHOD of suicide selected by middle-aged men.  It didn't affect the RATE, only the method.

Second, how do you know someone "saved their own life"?  Stopped a home invasion, OK, but saved their life?  That requires foreknowledge of the intent of the invader, does it not?

Third, to my knowledge, no one compiles a set of statistics on self-defense with a gun.  There are various estimates ranging from 68,000 to 2.5 million a year, but that's all they are - estimates. 

All I can say in answer to your question is ask these people if they'd have been better off defenseless:

Las Vegas homeowner shoots, kills intruder

http://www.wrcbtv.com/story/2778...

http://www.starbeacon.com/news/p...

http://www.detroitnews.com/story...

http://wate.com/2015/01/02/man-s...
A$A$A
If you ask me the exact figure then I am sorry, but WHAT I CAN GIVE is the researched, easy, practical ways to overcome the state of tension, worries and anxieties.

Yes, how to remove suicidal thoughts in Americans - Complete guide

When there is depression for longer than your mind and body can actually bear, then it results in suicidal thoughts. Yes, “suicide” signals a premature ending of one’s life by equally sending shock waves to the near and dear ones. Yes, what is left behind is not only months but years of guilt, grief, resentment, anger, confusion and endless moments of chaos and confusion to the family for not able to do anything about it.

How to remove suicidal thoughts in Americans tips - Since, we couldn’t wish the person “Good Bye” as we try to recall the last time, we happened to meet the deceased. Naturally, as emotional as we possibly get, we feel sorry for being very rude, insane, crazy or mad we were actually with the victim, but now the reality is the person has committed suicide.

Remember, failure is not the end of the world as if you are depressed due to not able to come up with expected results, recall that there is always the “next time”. Yes, that’s important to make you cheerful and motivated.

Read : How do toppers study and how I need to study too

The fear of cutting short ones life usually makes it a living hell for the parents who has to put brave front towards facing the traumatic, sudden and instant ending of their own children. Worst of all, there is immense stigma associated with suicides which even makes it further challenging for the associated members to be living and facing the world. As they are often the subject of endless blames for “just” being a mute spectator.

As per the recent developments worth to be seen, most of the suicides results from the unnecessary high expectations on the part of parents who want their children to excel, no matter what and on top of that, they keep on comparing them with other studious students. Thus, it instantly lowers the confidence level of students and they feel neglected from the people who matter them the most (like parents in this case). Similarly, it is this negative vibe, which starts with the thought process that there are “worthless” or “useless”. They also feel that society hardly needs them anymore and so do their parents who often tend to shout at them for being too careless, insensitive, and mad.

Even their friends turn foes and they literally cut themselves off, from the society as they can’t bear the stigma of being too traumatized from the constant tantrums of everybody.

Read : How I gained proficiency in English

Even if parents notice that something is amiss with their children, they tend to lecture them. Little realizing the fact, that people with suicidal thoughts actually don’t need any argument and they themselves aren’t in a clear state of mind to listen any more dictations or lecture on the issue of “immorality” or “morality” or “how one should be more responsible to family and surroundings”

How to remove suicidal thoughts in Americans tips -Do you know why it is recommended to have glass of water during angry state, especially during depression?

It is because while being hot tempered, it usually makes our body warm and water due to its cooling properties tend to make us cool and composed.

It is for the same reason that swimming may just prove to be the right option especially for those in depression or anger. It equally has its healing properties where the body gets surrounded with water to minimize the temperature. Hence, not only it helps to check on our anger issues, but is equally healthy for mind and body.

Read : The big business of Facebook likes – Every thing you want to know about them

How to remove suicidal thoughts in Americans tips -Following are the suicidal thoughts which usually hover in an individual

It’s high time that I have been constantly suffering day-in and day-out and enough is enough

I finally have to end myself so that my sufferings end once and for all

I am left with no other option that to finish myself

Nobody loves me

The world doesn’t need me any more

I am just a liability to everyone, as the world will be much happier and pleasant without me

My parents won’t be having much of an effect in my absence (giving scant regard to the extent of problems you are actually going to leave them surrounded with)

I am a person born to end myself

I want to make my loved ones feel the extent of problems, I am actually surrounded with

I equally want them to experience the kind of suicidal thoughts, I am actually experiencing

Read : 5 ways to clean your social media image before you apply for a job

How to remove suicidal thoughts in Americans tips -What you can do to minimize the level of sufferings for yourself?

You need to recall and memorize all the positive things which you possess

Give yourself a pat on the back by believing that you are God’s beautiful creation and that the sufferings are only a test from him to make you strong and polished

You need to distract yourself by doing positive things like reading books

Involve yourself in the get-togethers in your area to enhance your social circle

Make sure that you get at least 8 hours of sleep and that depression shouldn’t come in the way of eating your mind and body. If necessary take a medicine, but not make it a habit.

Talk to the person whom you respect, care and love. Yes, share with him the thoughts which are going on your mind. Since this practice actually lessens the sufferings.

Read : 10 Benefits of Having a Facebook Fan Page Over A Personal Profile

Depression usually make us frustrated and in this state of mind, we tend to get angry more often. So, try to control your anger by doing things you prefer. It can be watching your favorite channel such as comedy shows or indulging in favorite sports or listening music etc. As you divert your mind, you would ease yourself from the tensions which has been accumulating over time.

You need to also know whether you are really addicted to something which may have triggered your depression further. Yes, I am talking about associated reasons of being alcoholic. Other than that if you have mental disorder then try to find out the reasons, whether it is hereditary. You need to talk to your physician regarding the ways to forsake it for leading a normal, fruitful and systematic life.

Create a safety plan writing down the reasons which may prevent you to commit suicide. Yes, delay it for like 24 hours every single time you get the thought as recalling the safety plans will keep you abreast with the reasons to dissuade yourself.

Read : Things Your Business Should Never Do On FaceBook

How to remove suicidal thoughts in Americans tips -Other ways of how to get rid of suicidal thoughts

Depressing thoughts may change occasionally. What (emotional thoughts) you may be experiencing today, may not be tomorrow. So, take easy and believe yourself that you are strong and bold to face such situations easily.

I am talking about the following states:-

You may experience a change in your mood (for better) after watching a healthy comedy show, you have always loved and admired

Going out for an early or late night stroll, bare-foot on misty grass to keep your mind cool as early morning foggy grass is beneficial for health reasons

How to remove suicidal thoughts in Americans tips -What aggravates the situation for a person to commit suicide?

Well, following are the three instances which enhances the chance of a person to commit suicide:-

Firstly, there are suicidal thoughts which trigger us

Then comes the available means to suicide such as weapons

The available opportunity for committing suicide such as being lonely

In such situations, parents need to gel with their children extensively and remove any objections which may act as a weapon. For example, knife, long piece of cloth, sharp objects etc.

People under the influence of alcohol are far more likely to commit suicide as their mind ceases to work. So, don’t drink or take drugs.

Try to create your personal goals which may bring smiles in your face such as recalling about the funny childish moments you have with your friends, or how your parents and teachers regarded you to be special. As this acts as a stepping stone for you.

How to remove suicidal thoughts in Americans tips -Do take care

Health is wealth and we all know about it. So, eat right and never skip meals by taking required hours of sleep. Yes, your body won’t pain during this process as it releases endorphins and strengthens your well being emotionally by releasing stress.

Find new ways to check your stress level. This can be done by indulging in exercises or practice breathing exercise to make you emotionally strong.

Suicidal feelings may have associated trauma which may long-last for days or even months. So, even if the feeling subsides, you need to keep on caring for yourself. Yes, I am talking about therapy to adhere. Yes make sure you feel blessed to be a part of God’s creation try to understand the real reason for being in the world. After all, as prevailing first rays of morning sun wakes you up, you feel energetic and cool, from the notorious thoughts of last night. Yes, it actually happens with others and so can happen with you too.
A$A$A
It's impossible to get a precise answer for this question. No statistics are officially compiled on defensive gun use outside of justifiable homicide. There are surveys that rely on self-reporting by individuals. These surveys vary widely in their numbers.

The problem with determining whether or not a life was saved is that it is pretty much impossible to determine if a life would have been taken had a gun not been involved. It's like asking how many lives were saved by police officers. You could probably find out how many times they responded to a crime in progress, but you won't be able to know if a person would have died had they not intervened.

Here are some links that might help give you an idea of DGUs. Note: Guncite is obviously a pro-gun site, but like Wikipedia it is pretty good about providing links for you to do further research on the subject.

GunCite-Gun Control-How Often Are Guns Used in Self-Defense?

Page on guncite.com

Page on guncite.com

Gun Control Web Site: A Gun in the Home

CDC Gun Research Backfires on Obama - Guns & Ammo

Ten Surprising Findings From a New Report on Gun Violence

Defensive Gun Use (Part I) - The CDC Report on Gun Violence

And here are some links on firearm deaths. Obviously this is an area that tends to have more concrete data available.

Firearm Homicides and Suicides in Major Metropolitan Areas - United States, 2006-2007 and 2009-2010

FastStats - Injuries

Page on fbi.gov
A$A$A
A major study in 2015 that was not funded by the gun lobby found that “in 2012, there were only 259 justifiable homicides involving a private citizen using a firearm reported to the FBI’s Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) Program. That same year, there were 8,342 criminal gun homicides.” Further, regarding defensive use that did not result in a homicide, the study noted that “Pro-gun advocates – from individual gun owners to organizations like the NRA – frequently claim that guns are used up to 2.5 million times each year in self-defense in the United States…[this is] a vast overestimate.”

The best figure is from the National Crime Victimization Survey (NCVS) conducted by the Bureau of Justice Statistics. Acc to the NCVS, in the five years from 2007–11, “there were 29,618,300 victims of attempted or completed violent crime…[but] only 235,700 of the self-protective behaviors involved a firearm.” That averages about 47,000 per year - note that these include off-duty police officers. In comparison, some 13 million people used other methods of self-protection that did not involve guns.

In conclusion, “The reality of self-defense gun use bears no resemblance to the exaggerated claims of the gun lobby and gun industry. The number of justifiable homicides that occur in our nation each year pale in comparison to criminal homicides, let alone gun suicides and fatal unintentional shootings. And contrary to the common stereotype promulgated by the gun lobby, those killed in justifiable homicide incidents don’t always fit the expected profile of an attack by a stranger: in 35.5 percent of the justifiable homicides that occurred in 2012 the persons shot were known to the shooter.”
A$A$A
You have good answers here already.  However, I'll add a point about why the statistics are so hard to collect. 

Statistics on offensive, criminal use of guns are easy to collect because the victims are very inclined to report the incidents to police.  In a defensive situation where an innocent person defends against a criminal, certainly the criminal isn't going to report the incident for hopefully obvious reasons. 

Ironically though, in a lot of areas it doesn't behoove the victim to report the incident either if that victim drew a gun (even if not fired).  Drawing a gun unless you are in immediate danger of bodily harm can easily be legally interpreted as brandishing and that is a felony.  So if a mugger simply said "give me your wallet" with no sign of a weapon, drawing a gun could get the victim in legal trouble.  In some states, even drawing a gun on an intruder in your home will potentially get you in trouble depending on the exact situation.

These sorts of situations can be very gray and open to interpretation.  If the authorities involved are disinclined towards gun ownership, the otherwise law abiding gun owner should carefully consider reporting such events.
A$A$A
According to the FBI's annual Uniform Crime Statistics Reports, at least 900,000 Americans every year prevent crimes, defend themselves and others, by using a firearm -- most of the time, simply by displaying it.  (The FBI admts that the real figure is probably very much higher, maybe as much as 2 million, since very many such incidents are not reported to the police.)  Approximately 10,000 Americans are killed by firearms every year, less than half of them homicides.  For the rest, it's difficult to tell how many were accidents and how many were deliberate suicides, due to the stigma attached to suicide.
A$A$A
2. Defensive uses of guns are common:

“Almost all national survey estimates indicate that defensive gun uses by victims are at least as common as offensive uses by criminals, with estimates of annual uses ranging from about 500,000 to more than 3 million per year…in the context of about 300,000 violent crimes involving firearms in 2008.”

http://www.gunsandammo.com/polit...
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
How can I sue if someone is using my picture without my permission on Facebook?
A$A$A
I don’t know if you can successfully sue someone for such a thing. Or if you can, it is financially worth it. If you took the picture, you own copyright in it. If you do, you can do a takedown request to Facebook. If you do not own the picture, you do not own copyright in it, unless the person who did gave it to you. In such a case, the owner needs to do a takedown request on Facebook. Reporting a Violation or Infringement of Your Rights

If the person is using your picture to engage in any form of money making, then you might have the right to sue under laws relating to that. But unless you are famous or they made a lot of money off your image, again, it probably isn’t worth it financially.

If you actually want to sue, you either need to get the paperwork and file the suit yourself, or you need to retain a lawyer. A lawyer will likely cost you substantially more than the value of such a suit, unless the person has made a decent amouny of money off of your photo. I don’t know too many lawyers who would take the average case of someone improperly using a Facebook image.

If the person has engaged in identity theft with your photograph and actually harmed you in that way, then you should report it to the police.

In the end, what I am saying is that not everything is worth suing over, even if you have a good chance of success. See if you can get Facebook to take the image down before you worry about suing. Unless the person has done more damage to you than simply using the image for a little while.

But, if you really want to sue, I suggest you speak with a lawyer in your jurisdiction. They can tell you how to go forward and whether it is worth it.
A$A$A
If you require legal assistance, please contact a lawyer in yo...
A$A$A
I am going to make some presumptions, since the question lacks details and has vague wording.

Someone has a photo in which you are a subject and you want to punish them for posting it to Facebook as part of their personal page. The image is not libelous or defaming, in a legal sense.

If that presumption is correct, you have no standing to sue.

You don't own photos that photographers make just by being in them. You can protect your right to publicity, that is, you have to give permission to be used in an ad or merchandising product. But I presume that's not how the photo is being used.

Anyone can take a photo if you and post it online without your permission. (In most countries, if you aren't in a private locations like a dressing room.)

Now, perhaps I presume incorrectly and by “my image”, you mean a photo you created as the photographer.

If so, you have a right to sue. First file a DMCA with Facebook and then contact a lawyer. A copyright infringement lawsuit isn't something you can do yourself. Be aware that winning means you get paid actual damages, plus your legal fees. So many lawyers work on contingency if your case is strong.
A$A$A
Is it incidental or are you a part of a photographed group that gave permission to take the pic? If it is the first then you can ask that it be removed, you can also contact Facebook about it and they may or may not take it down. If on the other hand you are in a group pic that you participated in then probably not. You can demand a photographic release but don’t hole your breath. Scocial media has changed “privacy” in ways we can not imagine.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What are some best practices for protecting your company's trademark?
A$A$A
The practice that Nigel described is important - to elaborate a bit more, depending on the type of mark, and the appropriate audience of the mark, different media is monitored for improper use of the mark - for example, is the mark being used in a generic fashion by a newspaper reporter, or is it being used without the proper symbol, denoting it as a trademark?  Accordingly, in some cases, for very famous marks, hundreds or thousands of newspapers, periodicals, web pages, and other publications may be monitored.  In addition, various registration databases; i.e., the database of Federally registered trademarks, various state databases, databases maintained by foreign countries, etc., are monitored to determine if a competitor is attempting to register a similar mark.  Once an improper use is detected, the mark holder will generally notify the publication where the improper use was made, and ask for a redaction to be made and published.  Similarly, if a competitor attempts to register a similar mark, legal proceedings, such as opposition, may be filed to stop the competitor from registering the similar mark.
A$A$A
This answer is not a substitute for professional legal advice....
A$A$A
bala Jii Trademark Practice

We are expert advisor & the best option for you when it comes to TM/LOGO/Trademark Registration in Delhi NCR. We take each & every case in a very professional manner & as we understand that TM is one of the biggest asset of your company/firm, our professional take it that way & support you in a very unique & transparent way. We are best in securing your brand name & your brand entity. From filling of your Logo/TM to the TM registration we maintain a proper follow-up & also keep you informed about the same.

TM Registration @2499/- in Delhi. Offering the best cost for LOGO/TM/Trademark Registration in Delhi NCR (Gurgaon, Noida & Ghaziabad) We are the best option in terms of service as well.

For more information :- Openad

Facebook Page :- https://www.facebook.com/openad.in
A$A$A
There is a service named “Trademark Watch Service” wherein a thorough search is carried out across globe for usage of a particular trademark by any entity across the world.

LegalWiz.in provides such service to its clients and can be extended to the prospective customers who have done the trademark registration from us, at a cost of 20,000 INR. We will carry on the search process for you and will bring to your notice in case your trademark is being used anywhere across globe.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What is the craziest medical advice you've gotten in China?
A$A$A
How has no one mentioned IV drips yet?

IV drips (you know, that little bag of fluid that’s connected straight to your veins) is the solve-all / fix-all of Chinese modern medecine. Feeling light-headed because of the heat? Come get an IV drip! Sick with the flu? An IV drip for you! Broke your knee in a catastrophic scooter accident with an old Shanghainese taxi driver? An IV drip and it will be all better! (OK, I might be exaggerating a bit on that last one)

(Yup - why not just set IV drip holders in the waiting room chairs?)

China has an IV drip problem. I’ve lost count of the number of times that people have recommended a drip to me the moment I mentioned feeling a little sick or a little down. In 2009 alone, the average number of drips used was an astounding EIGHT PER PERSON. That’s one every 1.5 months.

So why the fascination with IV drips? Well, two reasons: a flawed reasoning, and my personal favorite human motivation - profits, profits, profits.

A Flawed Understanding: the main reason doctors in China give for using drips is that it’s faster. After all, thanks to the IV drip, the antibiotics go directly into your blood stream - you’ll get better instantly! While this reasoning is flawed at best, it makes absolutely no sense when you realize that a ton of the IV drips being prescribed are actually just saline solution with no meds at all…

Profits, profits, profits. Hospitals in China are actually REALLY cheap. You pay something like $5 for a consultation, and maybe $10 for the meds. The only way for the hospitals (most of which have undergone severe bouts of privatization over the years) to turn a profit is simply to start offering more expensive procedures. Greg Blandino‘s answer shows this perfectly, where he was offered knee surgery BEFORE they checked whether or not his knee was broken. A friend of mine was diagnosed with a high breast cancer risk in order to make her do more X-rays - she showed them to her doctor back home and he said there was nothing at all.

Now an IV drip yields waaaaay more profit than just prescribing antibiotics - even though it’s essentially the same thing for the patient. Usually, it’s 5–10x more profits. It’s therefore no surprise doctors and hospitals began to prescribe them like crazy.

And when your neighbor, your family, and all your friends go get an IV drip when they’re sick, well, you simply stop questioning it. Pretty soon the entire nation is hooked on IV drips.

It got so bad that around 2010 the Central Government had to step in and issue communications stating that IV drips provided no meaningful difference in treatment, and that patients should stop asking for them. The result? Nothing… people still went for IV drips. After all, their doctors were the ones recommending it.

We’re finally seeing this situation change (albeit slowly) after horrifying reports that improperly used IV drips caused over 200,000 deaths per year, and 300,000 cases of infant deafness. Hopefully within the next five years the IV curse will be lifted.

…but then a new battle will begin. C-sections. Same logic: doctors say it’s painless and less traumatic for the child, but really it’s a procedure that yields more profit AND makes it easier for the hospital to build its schedule - and therefore increase the number of pregnant women it can accommodate.

So yeah - the craziest thing?

Every time I’m prescribed something not because it’s good for me, but because it makes more money for the hospital…
A$A$A
I’m sure many people will come up with crazier stories, but since this is an A2A, I shall do my best to answer.

So, after moving to China, I started getting horrible toothache - like a stabbing, sharp, almost electrical pain near the back of my mouth, which was aggravated a hundred fold when on a plane. Quite an issue when your home country is a 14 hour flight away. So, I went to my local dentist, quite willing to get a root canal done, because the pain made me so anxious. It had got to the point that, when travelling around SE Asia, I decided to miss my flights and go by bus from Cambodia back to my city in China. But no, after tapping the tooth in question with his tools and blasting cold air on it, my lack of sensitivity made him refuse treatment. Very frustrated, I was back at square one.

So, I found a dentist in Shenzhen, and sure enough, she concurred that if there’s pain, then there’s a problem that needs to be dealt with, and a root canal would do the trick. The first appointment was relatively brief and pain free, thanks to the Novocaine. But the second… she used NO such pain relief. “You don’t need it,” she laughed, “the nerve will be dead now”. The nerve was not dead. Every time I saw one of those tiny little files going near my mouth, my entire body tensed up in anticipation, because those things HURT. I’m not sure she realised just how much I could feel. So, the third appointment, I requested Novocaine, and I got it, but the fourth appointment, she refused again. There was a lesion on my gum where she would have to inject. More filing and cleaning of the canals with no pain relief - admittedly, most nerve was dead, but believe me, not all!

So, I would say that - aside from “drink more water” for absolutely any and all ailments, and women avoiding ice cream and beer during their time of the month - the craziest medical advice I got in China was that I didn’t need Novocaine for my root canal.
A$A$A
Once I twisted my knee playing basketball. Went to a private hospital off 仓家胡同。The name of the hospital is 北京中医药大学东直门医院 if I remember correctly.

I had swelling and tenderness in the knee. Was really looking for a check-up to make sure nothing was broken. Doctor feels my knee. Before giving me an MRI the doctor suggests doing arthoscopic surgery. Right there. Gives me a prescription for anaesthetics. I nod politely, tell him to get ready for my 手术, which he wants to schedule that afternoon. Hobble right the fuck out of the hospital, go buy some knee braces and cold packs at the medical supply store on 东四十条 and never go back.

An earlier time, different private hospital. I had an infected sty on my inner eyelid. Doctor continuously prescribes me bullshit “traditional” medicine and pink eye medication. The scheisters have me going back and forth for 2 weeks, as my eye gets more inflamed, painful, and eventually pus starts oozing out.

Went to the 北京军区总医院 with my patients book. The military hospital is noticeably less scammy. Correctly diagnoses my infected sty as an infected sty. Doctor asks if I went to do a quick outpatient surgery where he flips the eyelid, cuts open and drains the infected part, picks out the piece of Beijing coal dust causing the whole issue, or a 2–3 week antibiotic regimen. I do the surgery, wham-bam thank you ma’am back to work in the afternoon, no pain the next day.

Long story short: Private hospitals here are terrible and the socialist military hospitals are pretty spartan (they stinted me on the novocaine for the eye surgery, but I’m a big boy) but effective.

All the other “cold water bad for healthy,” 上火， or 伤筋动骨一百天 stuff is fairly harmless. I mean, when someone back home is going on and on about omega-3 fatty acids and free radicals, it’s practically the same nonsense: pseudo-medical nonsense given weight because of repetition, not understanding. It’s a guy trying to slice open your knee for a couple 10,000 RMB that’s the real medical scandal.

Thanks for the A2A James.
A$A$A
I asked my mother why she had these pits on her face - I suspected acne scars but it turns out that when she was young and ill, the go to treatment was to take a small stick with a flame and burn the patient. They must have thought it worked because patients would suddenly perk up so they would stop.

And on the flip side it also weeded out those who were truly ill if they were so bad they tolerated it.

This swiss army knife equivalent of a clairvoyant / healer / fortune teller / prayer woman managed to successfully divine alot of accurate things about me without ever meeting me. This was done simply with my birth date and name. I was curious and went along with my relatives and for my actual illnesses she prescribed bouts of praying by her on my behalf as well as a burnt talisman in tea. I passed on burnt talisman tea. I kept the red pocket and talisman she gave me though.

I am impressed by fortune tellers who have managed to divine things about me they couldn’t have known - some did so without me being present. One gave me an in-depth reading and it was so depressing in terms of love and lifespan I actually wished he was a fraud and would just make up some nice lies! But he did accurately predict many events long before they happened and ones I had thought were completely unlikely. While he didn’t give medical advice as such he did identify parts of my body I had trouble with. Also he told me the ages at which I have to be careful or I’ll die but it seemed even if I dodged them my life line would not give me much more anyway.

In mainland China as a child my mother took me to some nasal specialist as I had some problems with my breathing and nose bleeds. I got strapped down to a chair and he put a swab with chemicals up my nose and it burned like hell. I was crying and my siblings looked on in horror. Even my mother was scared.

Yes my mother is rather screwed up when it comes to health. She is poorly educated combined with being a hyperchondriac as well as being fearful of everything. In her quest cure our diseases she went to some lengths and even harmed us.

Years later I realized what he was using when I went to the hospital to get my nose cauterized for violent nosebleeds. The doctor couldn’t find the offending veins in my nose but I was tired of spontaneous and frequent nose bleeds so I told him to just swab every vein to burn them all. He looked at me in horror and said he couldn’t do that. I explained how sick I was of suffering it and how I was actually getting faint from the blood loss. That allowed him to not resist when I grabbed it from him and proceeded to do it myself. Ironic that previously in China I had to be strapped down and now here I was burning the inside of my nose with chemicals myself. It worked though and gave me alot of relief. I still get nose bleeds sometimes as I think some of them recovered but they are nowhere near as debilitating now.

I suffer bad eczema along with my sister. This time it wasn’t just my mother but my gran who relies even more heavily on old wives tales Chinese medicine (a step back from even traditional Chinese medicine).

So the cure here was an endangered species. We protested but were too young to really resist. So we conducted an experiment to see if it would help by having a placebo and me and my sibling would administer it to each other. We did have to eat humble pie as it actually offered tremendous relief whilst the placebo did not. That said I wouldn’t use it again as it is too unethical and I don’t want to say what it is in case others try it.

So that argument against TCM that relies on animal parts, especially endangered ones, not working is an unwise argument. Because if it does work you won’t suddenly support using it and will just adjust your argument so it is better to use said argument in the first place.

My mum’s friend is not a bright person. She sprained herself and went to a Chinese masseur type healer. She came home with a shaved head. How that was linked to her treatment we don’t know as we laugh hysterically each time she recounts the story.
A$A$A
I think it was eat dog meat for a cold or flu, I forget which. I liked dog meat (rather tender), but the connection to a given illness escaped me. Something to do with certain foods being “hot” and others “cold”, as indicated by Greg B. in his answer.

Dog, if I remember correctly, was “hot” so it was good for countering a cold. I suppose the cold was a “cold” type illness?
E$E$E

