Q$Q$Q
If a company incorrectly informs a credit rating company that you have missed a payment, and this incorrect fact affects your credit rating, can the company who reported this false information be sued for libel?
A$A$A
No.

Libel and Slander are very complicated and generally misunderstood. Credit reporting errors happen constantly which requires credit bureaus to have a dispute process in place. Write a letter explaining the error, print 3 copies and mail it to Experian, Equifax and TransUnion. This can also be done online. Make sure to use a Credit History report dispute template if you plan on disputing a false late/missed payment.

Sample Letter for Filing Credit Report Disputes

If you feel that the company had some serious wrongdoing, file a complaint with the Better Business Bureau or the Federal Trade Commission. The compliance officer will end up reviewing the communications and history on the account and any employees who acted inappropriately will be punished appropriately.
A$A$A
Not directly and not for libel.

First you need to notify the reporting agency that this was a mistake and since has been cleared, with accompanying evidence from the credit card company and give them 30 days or so to correct it.

If it is not corrected in a reasonable time, then you can sue them for not abiding by fair credit reporting act in small claims court.
A$A$A
No, you can't sue for libel. But you can sue for violations of the Fair Credit Reporting Act.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
I am on Quora to promote myself, my brand and my services. Is this wrong?
A$A$A
Yes, using Quora as a “sales funnel” is wrong. You would not see that being allowed on Wikipedia. Quora is about building quality content. That said, plenty of people do it, so you are not alone. You will notice that @Ali AlShamsi and I have chosen not to “sell” anything, in fact just the opposite. In addition to the over 5,000 quality answers on Quora I have responded to another 5,000 submissions of business ideas sent to ideas@g3.com. I have invested over $100,000 worth of my time for the sake of the 200 submissions out of the 5,000 that directly benefited from feedback and the 20 of them that are queued up for working with me. I haven't charged any of them anything. I have over $200,000 in followup time. My investment of time is purely to help other people and not to build my brand or enrich myself.

Quora does have rules against advertising on the platform in the form of SPAM, but there is nothing to prevent people from leveraging the platform for their own gain. At least for me, I try to avoid that. I have no book on Amazon to sell, I have no $199 program to purchase and I have no $97 sessions people can buy to get my time. You can't buy my time, you have to earn it and people earn it by submitting quality ideas they need help with to ideas@g3.com. My help is completely free to them to review their ideas and offer suggestions.

I don't begrudge anyone who chooses to push the limits of the Quora platform for self promotion but the whole idea of Quora was helping others, and that is what I try to keep in mind.
A$A$A
Meet this guy, in his below poster of his video-

He is Vivek Mittal. He has a you tube channel named Fit Tuber . I saw him in starting, with nearly 2000 subscribers at that time.

He was too on Quora, answering questions, specially related to fitness, and health, and at the end he never failed to mention his YouTube channel in it. Also his answers were very helpful, specially for those looking for workout, diet, and other such topics. Also he never failed to personally answer anyone's query, and always showcased economical and the best possible ways for encountering any problem in the body.

Right now he has nearly 150K subscribers, and will still grow. You can meet him here - Fit Tuber

But what's more important is, that his answers and videos were, and are still very useful for me, and saw others too impressed with the content.

Similarly, I have learned quite a lot from you too, and I haven't paid a penny yet !

As per I understood till now, Quora is a platform for learning and growing, and what's bad if someone makes out money, by contributing to it? Money becomes a secondary part after that. What's more important, is that the users should get benefited, including you.

But yes, advertising just by simply mentioning the link, and contributing nothing to anyone’s knowledge ,just as a bait is bad.

Thanks !
A$A$A
Quora’s value add to contributors, at the bare minimum, is self-promotion. People who are saying “Yes” to this question fail to see how the economics at play require it to healthily increase the market of contributors. Outside of Gordon Miller, where he says “Yes” (I imagine is his attempt to protect his reputation) but then explains how he promotes himself, his brand, and his services. Not having written a book doesn’t change the bottomline: You’re here to benefit.

Does it make you evil? There definitely seems to be a negative connotation with the word “promotion”, but I’m very happy to hear that you have figured out a way to use the platform to your advantage. Why? This incentive allows you to invest more time into Quora enriching people with more valuable information.

I commend you for having the cojones to say you’re using the platform to promote yourself. I hope more get used to the idea and understand it’s better for the community.

Wrote a book? post it on your bio. Monetizing services with your expertise? post it on your bio. Have a philanthropy? post it on your bio. It benefits us as a community to have more people incentivized to share knowledge.

However, Loy Machedo, please refrain from putting a picture of yourself in the question details. =P
A$A$A
See Mr. Loy Machedo , how I see Quora ,

It is a platform where you can get answers to your queries

It is just give and take over here , you ask for it , you get it .

Here you can get in touch with people who are very rare to find on other platforms .

It is a free repository of knowledge and getting bigger day by day , because of the contribution of people like you .

You are contributing to it , I follow you . You dedicate 14 hours of your day ( that is a huge amount of time ) . You have gained a huge fan base ( followers ) not because you were promoting yourself , it was because you were contributing to Quora . You have 16560 followers as I am writing this answer at a cost the cost of 589 answers .

So i do not find anything wrong if you get some leads from here , because it is a community where highly intellectual people , HNIs are providing there solutions and it becomes obvious that after some much of follower base you too get in contact with some individuals that may bring wonders to you .

So it may sound harsh to someone that you are here to promote yourself , but actually it is not like you are advertising yourself . You are a person who people like to get connected so it becomes normal to everyone about you doing your business if you get the opportunity .

Because here it is not like that you are getting paid for your answers , you have wisdom , you have the techniques , you have the resources . So it becomes inevitable for people to get connected to you and get some benefits from the knowledge you have gained for so long time .

So if you charge a fee , that has nothing to do with Quora because “Business is Business” .

Even Quora earns money through advertising here[1] . So it is no harm in that .

Thanks !!!

Hope it Helps !!!

Footnotes

[1] How does Quora make money?
A$A$A
Hey Loy it is not about your services and branding that Gorden Miller has a problem with.

Are you the only one promoting your services? I know tons of awesome people who are promoting (for eg. Minance Capital, Unacademy, Amit Ghosh) and they are adding quality regardless of if they convert to sale or not, just like you.

It might be against quora policy but why is it the first time Gordon miller is so irked by someone (who he considers a “Nobody” , “Toilet scrubber form India”).

As far as I know Gordon miller wont’t get fazed by some nobody.

So what is it you ask?

Loy , Your answer is in your answers :P

First of all I would like to acknowledge all the three parties in this.

Gordon Miller

Loy Machedo

Ali AlShamsi

Loy, you have written answers about the places you have lived. In one such answers you have given an unbiased ,uncensored account of Dubai. This answer didn’t go down well with our (self proclaimed) secret milti billionare superhero Ali AlShamsi from Dubai and he started hounding you all over quora ever since. He even wrote an answer where he literally abused you (and he has deleted that answer now after it backfired) but finally lost the propaganda.

Enter the self proclaimed multi millionaire Gordon Miller who had been bromancing with Ali for a very long time. These two regularly praise and pat each other’s back and they even talk to each other regularly, I don’t know if they meet or how often but they are in good contact.

So now you know why Gordon Miller who has nothing to do with you suddenly gets interested about all the quora policies you are breaking and calling you a Toilet scrubber from India.

</endRant>

Dear Gordon,

Please drop this holier than thou attitude. Learn to be humble you might have money & success but trust me when I say it sometimes successful people underrate luck. Imagine being born in Cambodia, or to psychologically imbalanced parents who made you into a drug addict, or girl victim of human trafficking sold into sex slavery.

A lot of thing that are out of our control have to go right to have a decent shot at success.

I also had similar thoughts about him in the beginning but if you could really drop your hate and read more about his life you will know how big of a man he is. Money or no money.
A$A$A
Not at all.

So long as you are doing it the RIGHT way.

Let me explain.

If you come from a standpoint of giving a lot of value in your posts, answering pressing questions in your niche - then people will notice and appreciate that.

I’m assuming that you and your brand or services offers people relief from a problem or pain that they are having; or the attainment of some gain or pleasure that they are seeking.

If that’s the case, then you’ll want to either create posts, or answer lots questions that answer such issues.

Your direct answers will offer viable solutions to those problems/pains that the person is asking, or ways to attain the pleasure or gain that they are seeking.

At the end of each post you can then offer a subtle call to action, and this can go something like this.

If you’ve liked this answer and would like to learn how you can eliminate this nagging pain/problem, or gain this advantage, pleasure or gain (insert for your niche)- then follow this link, get a free consultation, check out this offering.

However, if all you’re doing is just blatant and shameless promotion with no offer of value, then people will see through that and simply ignore you.

And this is the WRONG way to promote yourself.

I know of a few people who are promoting their brand and services and have made a full time living out of it.

I’m talking six and seven figures.

And it really isn’t that hard if you know how.

So if you’ve liked this answer and would like to know how you can use this very platform to promote yourself, brand or services the RIGHT way and gain more exposure, sales and clients then grab a FREE Coaching call.

Details are right here on my profile.

I know this answer will help you.

Chika Nwoko
A$A$A
I don't believe you are wrong to do this - but the people that message you are probably expecting that you will provide them with free advice because you have given free answers. The Quora community is interesting in the respect.

I have had several people PM me to ask for help with their short stories, poetry, even asking me for help with their answers. I am far too busy to be able to take on these extra jobs, so I have thought very hard about charging for my services as well.

The way to remedy this would be to be open about the fees you will be charging in your bio.

I have found that most folks don't read my entire bio (it's too long for the regular Quoran to read), so I put the really important stuff toward the top.

If you are completely up front about your fees, then people can not complain when you tell them how much it will cost for personal service!

Thanks for the A2A Loy!
A$A$A
According to me, yes it's wrong. For me Quora had a credibility, these are genuine answers from people of all walks of life.

If you are here for promoting your brand, than which part of your answers are true? All the stories about abuse seem to belittle everyone who have shared their abuse stories anonymously.

Its just goes to show in the name of branding you can say anything and justify yourself. I agree with Ryan, Quora was different, it was something different than Facebook/Instagram.

You changed my perspective of Quora. All the abuse stories are part of promoting your brand.

Thank you very much for owning to your real intentions on Quora.
A$A$A
It is rightly said" If you are good at something never do it for free".

Giving advice on a global platform and actually working with personal attention is different.

You pen down your views on a question according to your experiences.

I am into recruitment and I have had quite good number of companies asking me for almost free or offered peanuts as per the services. I stopped taking their work and quietly told that going busy with work these days.

Value your work and understand where you require to provide it at less rate and where you need to maintain your fees.

I always help when it is required and necessary but going beyond limits everytime will start affecting your earning.

You can brand yourself where it is required and looking at your work and popularity, people will contact you for sure.

All may not be able to handle your charges but out of hundred, there will be one who will hire you for their work. That's how business is!

A digital/SEO/ Content guy requires utmost views and popularity that you are already enjoying.

Hence, promote yourself as per requirement and not to boast everytime (let people judge your popularity).

Have a great journey on Quora ahead Mr. Machedo!!!
A$A$A
Tushar Tripathi gave an awesome example of why it isn’t wrong to promote yourself on Quora. I want to add some points myself.

Quora was made as a question and answer site. You ask a question, you get an answer, as simple as that.

Plus, it also has an added feature of ‘BLOG’ where users can blog or write about a topic , pretty much how a blog works.

Whenever a question is asked, you get an answer here. The ones, who are accused of promoting themselves are doing so by answering the questions being asked. They are giving their time, their energy and imparting the knowledge that they have gained through years of hardships, experiences, hard work.

If they are informing you of the charges for their services(paid), then it is nowhere wrong. It is even a better option that people get enlightened of such courses, so that they can take it for their own good.

As of the accuser, Dear Sir, we are your dedicated followers, and we have seen how you promote ideas to be sent to a particular e-mail id for being reviewed, and the ones selected are being invested in. It isn’t that you are doing it out of some philanthropy purposes. Where will the profits go when you guide the company to become a multi-million company.?

Let’s make peace here, and get the maximum of the information provided by the esteemed personalities gifted to us via this platform.
A$A$A
No, Loy, you are not wrong.

For better or worse, Quora is a public site, almost social media, where frankly everyone is on it to both share their knowledge and to (perhaps as a side effect) promote themselves.

I think a lot of people forget…and at times I certainly do…that Quora is a multitude of different topics, with many different people in them, living and loving and being.

In many of these topics, in many of these answers, there is a certain type of person who answers, and then provides a link to their blog, their book, or to their programme. They are…in a very mercenary way…doing personal marketing wrong. It is simply so frequent that it gets emotionally annoying.

So - do you see how your personal branding, which indeed focuses on promoting yourself, and shares your knowledge, could be seen in a more intense way, as annoying?

I do not think that you are doing wrong; indeed, I respect you and admire you, for living up to your personal brand so well. Your personal branding is very clear, and coherent, and you stick to it closely and logically, and I deeply admire that.

You remind me that I should be sticking by mine, haha!

And you are going to get controversy on this question (you can already see that in the answers)…hey, wait a minute…great job! That’s excellent! That’s amazing.

Perhaps, sometimes, turn down the copywriting and marketing tricks, hm? I’ve seen answers from you where that’s the case, and upvoted them.

Or maybe it’s just a branding clash; Quora’s brand and user engagement, prior to your joining the site, is a rather intellectual and detached one, about one of knowledge, offered for free, with no strings attached. And emotions, when they’ve been appealed to, which tend to be on the positive side (warm-fuzzy to cuteness to revenge-against-the-deserving, or binding-together-against-oppression).

So a lot of people come in, are snapped up by the brand in terms of being fans (you know how that goes) - and react poorly to someone with a contradictory personal brand.

Quora, to more than a few people, is their safe space and sanctuary. Imagine if a tornado came to Koh Samui, or a tsunami, and smashed up everything (it is a beautiful place, by the way - I took my ex-fiance there, once).

The tsunami or tornado didn’t mean to, but it happened, and it impinged on people’s feelings of safety and security. That’s what’s meant by controversy, and the high emotions that your answers aim to evoke. Which is good, by the way; diversity is good. But people are going to react badly to it, especially people who are more intellectual.

I guess - putting it into more personal branding terms, though I’m not very good at personal branding - contrast your personal brand versus another personal brand’s, whose key values are Compassionate, Serious, and Intellectual. There’s just a clash where things don’t work out okay, because the values are at loggerheads sometimes and cooperative sometimes. And that’s your personal brand’s relationship with the people in Quora.

So:

the people with Personal Branding training can more-or-less see through it,

the people who are intellectual and were hoping that they could share knowledge for free and promote their value their way are collaterally no-selled (emotion is easier to get to than intellect, they feel, ironically), and

they do not want to see people who are worse at what you do, do it more often.

Are you wrong? No. There are many highly successful people on Quora who do what you do; Gordon does the same (and it works), and has his doubters. Ali, too. David Rose, too. Richard Muller, too. I can’t think of others at this point, but they definitely are there. But none of them are quite as loud about it, probably partially to do with their personal brand values. I would probably say that none of them 100% use their personal brand on Quora, so we’re seeing deeper into who they are (and how close they truly are to their personal branding over a lifetime of business).

But if it’s worth anything, Loy, I like you. I like you as a person, I like your personal brand, I like your story, and I like your ability to stick to your personal brand, though my thoughts on your personal brand’s effects are a bit…less fond.

Although your personal brand also reminds me extremely strongly of my personal brand mentor, who was a bit of a conman, to be honest. His lessons were fine, though.

It wasn’t a good relationship, in the end, and I suppose that has colored my comments and answers to your questions. Please don’t take them personally.

I’m still learning about Personal Branding, of course, and your answers help. So, thank you. And thank you for asking.
A$A$A
No..! you are not doing wrong

You are doing well on Quora. You are sole on Quora, whom I never scroll down the page when there is a question answered by you. People who complain about your doings on Quora are wrong.They don't know of the how much effort,time,hard work,dedication and money you have spent for being what you are today. I really appreciate your work.

And if you demand some money for personal branding,nothing wrong in it. Cause you deserve money. And those who complain about demanding money,told them to do personal branding their self, by investing their at least 10 years, spending money, purchasing books and spend time to read, by making personal relations internationally to know about individual's behavior, and told them to undergo through the every experience you have.

But Loy Machedo ,there the thousands of your fans around the globe,and every one can't pay you. Don't ignore them as well. Look my friend , Being balanced in every thing of life,is best policy.

I support Loy Machedo
A$A$A
Nothing is wrong when compared to other social media Websites what they promote or do…

But the Subject is I am on Quora to promote myself, my brand and my services Is this wrong? Yes its wrong

Many share there Ideas at the end they share there YouTube channel to check more Ideas…Quora is not here for that.

(For that I dedicate 14 hours of my day every single day in giving FREE high-quality answers with each answer taking around 30 minutes of my time and around 500 to 3,000 words. But if anyone asks me for Private Consultation - I let them know what are my charges. Am I wrong in doing this?)

Lets take it an another way

By giving your ideas in better presentations which itself tempts the reader to follow you and even starts reading more of your answers, the more and more follower the more readers, even the questions will also reach its craziness or to the pinnacle and Loy will also starts sharing his experience as answers and at the end everyone starts thinking HA HA free advise come everyone lets approach LOY for our betterment.

At this point as con man even starts to charge for the advises then why shouldn't Loy charge for his advises…

Some of the answers which are so true how people behave or cheat from this can be learned to be clever enough from his life experience and the philosophy Being who you are which makes to feel to do more/boosts in our day to day life,or even how to be a play boy also.

Quora made it happen to A Super Good Self-Marketer for his own brand, so its not just promotion, its branding the service you give and that's awesome to see..As said before providing the Business card you made the need by deed.

Conclusion will be Quora is not place for promotion its just Q&A, but Quora is magic for online Marketer/CEO as a marketer we can use the Magic.

And that what is happening and everyone is also doing it.

:-)
A$A$A
It's completely wrong if you want to promote yourself and your brand .

People here are looking for good information and quality content if you can provide quality content to your target audience then you will be considered as an expert in that Niche.

For example .. Balaji the most followed followed guy in quora. he established by answering each and every question in detail and provided as huge contribution to this platform. Intense he got meetings with big geeks in the planet and lots of other opportunities.

Okay how to promote your brand without violating the platform rules.

Let's say there are questions

how to increase my YouTube AdSense revenue

or how to increase my YouTube views

or how to increase my conversion rate

You can jump on these questions and provide values by offering strategies and techniques to improve YouTube ads and improve video view and conversion rates .

What if the founder of an e-commerce start-up having $100k MRR asked this question and you provided a huge value to increase their conversion rate. If that founder like your answer and your strategy…he may hire you to increase their conversion rate .

Good luck for your journey
A$A$A
Definitely not wrong, but how many have done this successfully? (Please share some success stories in the comments section)

I think Quora is not a good long term investment for that specific purpose because of how the algorithm works.

The algorithm will reward ONLY those who are consistently investing time on the platform “feeding the database.”

If you only have that purpose you must be willing to become a Quora slave…

With that said, everyone should have a clear purpose from spending time on this wonderful community.

For me it means stress relief.

When I'm frustrated my mind goes wild. Writing helps me focus. Writing relaxes my mind and helps me get my ideas in order.

Our time is finite. Attention is the most valuable asset in the world. We must choose wisely where we invest our time and energy.
A$A$A
I really don't think it's wrong at all. I've learnt a great deal from you and would hate if you were to leave Quora.

To be honest you are dedicating 14Hrs of your day for free which otherwise you'd have made tonnes of money. You not only deserve but it is your right to promote yourself. There's no such thing as free lunch

Even Gordon Miller is on Quora and he promotes his venture, takes questions gives solid advice. I don't find any reason why you shouldn't. To be honest we are the one's who benefit from you more than you getting benefitted.

Keep up the good work Loy.

PS - if I get rich someday, I'll surely 'gift' you $100,000 for you to be my lifetime mentor ;)

Cheers!!
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What are some highly upvoted answers on Quora that are factually incorrect or misleading or strongly biased?
A$A$A
Anonymous's answer to What should every Indian know about IIT?



As you can see the answer has already got a massive 3.9k upvotes.

The reality is that very few (roughly 37%) FLY to America and 35% of those who go abroad return to India having made some money.

The second accusation that our taxes benefit USA rather than our own country India is baseless as IIT alumni have helped generate 15-19 million jobs i.e. an average of 100 jobs created per IIT alumnus. (out of these 71% jobs were created in India). Also considering that IITians are associated with an incremental Revenue of $240 billion a year out of which 78% is in India and the best figures of the money spent by the government of India on IITs is less than $1 billion,we can safely say that IITians are returning more.

Source : You can find all the details in this report by IIT Kanpur

http://www.iitk.ac.in/new/data/F...

Every one rupee invested in an IIT has had an economic impact of Rs 15 and each IIT graduate meant 100 new jobs. Refer the following link.

IITians' contribution to economy is Rs 20 lakh crore: Study - The Times of India

Edit 1: Thanks for promotion people.

Edit 2: A lot of people argue that 37% is a huge number, but believe me NRIs are not such bad creatures :P

Read this answer by Balaji Viswanathan for more details.

Balaji Viswanathan's answer to In what ways are the non-resident Indians contributing to India and what influence do they have? How much investment are they bringing into India? Are these investments going towards wealth creation? Are NRIs helping shape foreign policies?

No offence to the writer or to any reader, I suggest you report the answer as "factually incorrect" to possibly stop spreading a completely wrong image of the IITs.
A$A$A
This may not be factually incorrect, but any genuine cricket fan will agree that this is misleading.

Pavani Mandagiri's answer to Is AB de Villiers the best cricketer ever?

AB De Villiers is worshipped as God on Quora, and I've never seen a player receive so much attention during his career.

But this answer crossed all limits, and to my surprise, has 2.8k upvotes as I write this.

Greatest cricketer: RIP Sachin, Sir Bradman, Viv Richards....

Greatest All-Rounder: RIP Jacques Kallis, Kapil Dev, Sanath Jayasurya

Best fielder: That is debatable, but there is Jonty Rhodes, and many others of his standard even in this generation.

Play all formats of cricket: Every good cricketer does it. Example Virat, Rahane etc

Average: Sure everyone has heard of Amla. Enough said....

Also, the image given does not include the averages from 2005 to 2008. Here they are:

2005   15.78

2006   42.36

2007   44.77

2008   36.16

Everyone hits a purple patch, this is his purple patch. That does not mean he is the greatest cricketer ever. Sachin had similar figures from 1996 to 2003. Kohli is undergoing that since 2010 to till date.

The worrying part is almost all the points have been raised in the comments section, yet people continue to upvote the answer.

Yep he is a superman.

PS: Offence intended to ABD worshippers, not to ABD fans.
A$A$A
This isn't "highly upvoted," but it's by a two-time "Quora Top Writer." and it contains a factually incorrect statement that could be seriously misleading for gifted kids and their parents if they accept her answer as authoritative and correct:

Margaret Weiss' answer to Should I drop out of high school and try to go to college?

Weiss starts by saying that "Almost every job requires a college degree to start with, and that is only obtainable if you have your high school diploma."

Both halves of that statement are false. Quite obviously, there are MANY jobs that do NOT require a college degree. They may not be the greatest jobs, but there are close to a hundred million of them in the U.S. alone. Which is a good thing, because less than a third of all Americans over 25 have a college degree.

Less obviously, perhaps, there is no basis for claiming that "a college degree ... is only obtainable if you have your high school diploma."

On the contrary, a high school diploma is almost irrelevant in terms of getting into college. The vast majority of colleges and  universities in the U.S. either don't care about whether you finished high school, or they say that "high school graduation or the equivalent" is required, but then they have an easy process for establishing equivalence and getting a waiver, usually based on CLEP and AP exam scores and perhaps a collection of recent work.

Because the reality is that every year thousands of gifted kids drop out of school without a diploma and go to college at ages ranging from 17 down to the occasional prodigy aged 12 or less. And these kids are not finding it hard to get into good schools. Just about every college in the U.S. will accept a high school sophomore or junior with high enough SAT scores and grades, especially if the kid also aces a few AP exams.

In fact, it's my impression that top-ranked schools are especially likely to say, right up front, that they are quite happy to take kids who haven't finished H.S.

But let's Google a few schools, just to see:

Harvard College Admissions Information

High school diploma or equivalent is not required.

Massachusetts Institute of Technology Admissions Information

High school diploma or equivalent is not required.

California Institute of Technology Admissions Information

High school diploma or equivalent is not required.

Johns Hopkins University Admissions Information

High school diploma or equivalent is not required.

In other words, it is clearly false that "a college degree ... is only obtainable if you have your high school diploma."

I left Weiss a comment, including the above search results, and I asked her, politely, to edit her message to correct the error. She imediately  deleted the comment and blocked me -- which was NOT the response I was expecting from a so-called "Quora Top Writer."

Since she refuses to fix an obviously false factual statement, I think a few downvotes are in order.
A$A$A
Thanks for asking. This is indeed a big problem on Quora and any other ask-and-answer-platforms.

I've seen many assumptions or wracts*, disguised as truth. I'd never believe anything on the internet, until I've checked it on my own or the sources are trustworthy! (if there even are any; mostly there are none...)

*wrong 'facts'



I just saw this answer to the question: "What happens when we hear a 1000-decibel sound?" a few days ago:





The factually wrong answer has 6.6k upvotes, the correcting comment ... well, none at all. (NB: ~3 weeks later already 7.2k and 6 upvotes)

Btw. Hansi Mittermeier is too polite with saying "not entirely correct". It is plain wrong! 500% inaccurate/wrong if you want to put it simple.

PS: Hansi has written his own answer: Hansi Mittermeier's answer to What happens when we hear a 1000-decibel sound? Does something happen to your body when exposed to such a high volume?



What are the problems here?

The guy wrote:

Decibels are a logarithmic scale -> right so far.

110 decibels is 10 times louder than 100 db. wrong

120 decibels is 100 times louder than 100 db. wrong

Assumption about the power of the sun et al. wrong



To make it clear what he should have written (Hansi is correct - thanks Hansi!):

Doubling of the volume (loudness) should be sensed as a level difference of +10 dB

Doubling the sound pressure corresponds to a measured level change of +6 dB

Doubling of sound intensity (acoustic energy) belongs to a calculated level change of +3 dB.

More info about this topic in German and English:

Loudness volume

Now about the sun thingy:

This  puts it quite nicely; the power required to make a 1000 decibel noise  for one second is equivalent to the power of the entire sun for 4  billion years.

by OP

You must have read that wrong then. It would take not just the Sun's total power, not just every star in the known Universe's power, but something like 1 nonillion times the power available from every star for the next 4 billion years!

What you must have missed is that our Sun has to burn for 3.56 x 10^53 years (54 digits!) to get that amount of energy. Then he mentions that regrettably our Sun will only survive for another 4 billion years.

by Cody Colburn



Why does it have thousands of upvotes although it is wrong?

People like it and upvote it because it is written funny and the "facts" itself are funny. It is succinct - everything is there in a short and elegant way while other answers are novels in comparison.

People usually don't know much about bels (or other complex units/subjects), so they tend to believe the answerer. People who write about such complex things, just have to know what they are writing about, right..?

The OP has a PhD in Physics, he knows such stuff for sure (...) Also a lot of other PhD's - who really should have know better - upvoted it. (In my opinion the biggest issue here) -We have even a name for that: Argumentum ad verecundiam or just: "trust in authority bias".

Reinforcement: Highly upvoted answer are seen as especially helpful/worthy ... so they get even more attention and therefore upvotes.

It was shared to hundreds of other people, so now just start my list at the first point again ...



KEEP CURIOUS, CHECK THE "FACTS" ON YOUR OWN AND DON'T BELIEVE SOMETHING, ONLY BECAUSE IT HAS THOUSANDS OF UPVOTES OR IS WRITTEN BY AN AUTHORITY.



______

Update 1:

Thanks for all the upvotes and sharing after such a short time!

I was asked via message, how could it be, that such a wrong answer receives 6.6k upvotes, so I added: "Why does it have thousands of upvotes although it is wrong?"

Update 2:

Added: "Now about the sun thingy" and "actual count of upvotes"

Want more? You know all these "most interesting facts"-thread, right? There are dozens of them on Quora and even more elsewhere. Now I came across one and though, let's check the facts of the most upvoted answer. Do you wanna guess, how much was right?

Alexander Freiherr's answer to What are the most interesting facts you know?
A$A$A
This will simultaneously be an answer to this question and Is the Downvote Cabal board good or bad for Quora?

Oliver Emberton's answer to What's an efficient way to overcome procrastination? with 11573 votes is Quora's most upvoted answer and has been called out by Bradley Voytek so there is no one who will contest if that is the most upvoted answer that may fit the the definition of inaccurate. I will point out other examples which went viral but were also deemed inaccurate.

I have been involved with the Science Downvote Cabal. Now that you know that such a thing exists, our goal is to remove pseudoscience away from the eyes from the easily manipulated.

As mentioned by both Bradley and Oliver, it is incredibly easy to game the system by using great visual aids and telling an amusing and captivating story. Fortunately for me, most alternative medicine and homeopathy answers quickly get voted down so the Downvote Cabal rarely gets summoned.

Answers that have been posted to the Science Downvote Cabal have included:

Dhrumil Vaishnav's answer to What are the theories that discuss different kinds of intelligence, apart from Gardner's theory of multiple intelligence? What about fluid and crystallized Intelligence? What is the current established understanding in this area? 159 votes at the time of writing

and

Jon Davis' answer to Could you kill a Tyrannosaurus Rex with a pistol? which required a rebuttal in Jon Davis' answer to Could a T. Rex have swallowed a human whole (or mostly whole), or would several bites have been involved? 495 votes at the time of writing

And most infamously

Brian Roemmele's answer to What is the most efficient way to arrange solar panels? 84 votes at the time of writing



Brian tells a great story about this 13 year old who had this great idea which ultimately became a TED talk and had multiple mentions in the media. A classic example of a child prodigy who came up with an extremely elegant idea which was seemingly missed by all of the adult experts in the world.

Unfortunately, that story was later refuted when actual solar experts looked at the data and quickly and convincingly disproved the hypothesis. The media never quite looked into that aspect so the cool and cute story maintained its momentum. Like the real world, the same occurred for this particular question where people were easily attracted to the story while scientists quickly stepped in to refute the hypothesis. I will say that Brian Roemmele was a good sport in dealing with a bunch of annoyed energy experts who jumped at his answer and provided their own analyses and calculations.

However, at the end of the day, this answer still has more upvotes than the more accurate answers and as one can tell by looking at the comments, several of the rebuttals have been collapsed. So much for crowd peer review.

To conclude, this would be a great time to continue gaming the system by referencing my own viral answer to Why don’t some people, particularly PhDs, take Quora seriously?

It's very simple. When a PhD holding person who is the expert on their subject has fewer votes than a power user, they are going to respect the website less.
A$A$A
Answer by Madhav Matle to How do I identify poisonous and non poisonous snakes in India?

When I reached this answer, it was upvoted 4.5k times. Call me biased but I do not trust answers by Indians on scientific topics, at least on face value. Yes, there are exceptions both ways but patterns make life easy for me. So I dug up some information. What was clear at first glance was that the answer was copy pasted from Wiki without any citation. Was it not something Quora had policy against? On further inspection, it was found that not only was it copied, it was copied badly. So I wrote all I could find wrong with the article and reported it. By this time, it was already past 5.5k upvote marker. By the time Quora took action, it was at 6.5k. I even pasted my report as comment to the answer. It is still generating upvotes after being downvoted by moderation(why is that possible?) and has reached 7.7k marker, huge facepalm. My challenge comment got one upvote, thank you Vikram Bhat

Seriously, my 7.7k Indian brothers and sisters, may I ask why that rattle snake was in India, community exchange program or something?

One request to Quora, When reporting an answer, we are given only one option to tick among ‘OP bio not credible, factually incorrect etc.’ What the fuck one to do when everything is wrong with the answer? But still I thank you for this.

PS : That question still misses a Quora level answer, I do hope someone does it justice.
A$A$A
Anonymous's answer to Anonymous' answer to What is the difference between Quora and Facebook?

Sorry to say but this answer is complete bullshit as well as incorrect and misleading.

How ?

Read all the points he wrote and try to analyze.

Seriously, I want to downvote this answer n number of times.

Reason : 

You can not write such a script which can give the stats he mentioned in his answer.

There are millions of profile on Quora and If you'll try to extract the data, your system will catch fire as it can take month to extract the infos.

Though he got 1.8k upvotes for his answer.



Now, suppose he extracted the data. So, how he'll store these information ?

He'll probably need 100s of hard disks to store such huge amount of data.

Which he can not do :)

Go through this answer and read, there are some best comments, but here I'm mentioning mine.

This answer was no where equal to reality ( form programming point of view ) and after reading the answer I commented to which he replied :

Now, whatever he wrote as an answer by mentioning a word "script" can be easily obtained through simple Google search and he successfully fooled the Quora users.
A$A$A
Balaji Viswanathan's answer to How can Communism be explained to a ten year old?

The ~4.8k voted answer is factually incorrect, and it basically says "Communism is have-not immigrants coming and taking the haves' stuff". In a colorful story, immigrants not only take over stuff from the haves, but also trash the place. The only thing missing from the narrative is a motorcycle gang and some punk band to go with it.

This has nothing to do with the definition of political science term Communism. That prompted me to write a rebuttal:

Ozgur Zeren's answer to How can Communism be explained to a ten year old?

First, i would advise you to ignore Balaji Viswanathan's factually incorrect answer which basically says that Communism is "have-not immigrants coming and taking over haves' stuff". This misconception basically qualifies under the common misconceptions which people who never researched the political science terms they speak of, believe from their construed bias. You will notice other numerous answers in the same line as well. With cows, ducks and whatnot.

Now here is a proper definition of political science term Communism:

Democratic ownership, governance, and sharing of the means of production.

Communism

To put it practically, people who work somewhere, together own, democratically govern and share the profits of the establishment.

It means that when someone works somewhere, s/he should have a share in that workplace, and s/he should be participating in decision making process through direct democracy, or through electing representatives. Instead of working for unlivable wages without protections or rights and being disposable at any point on the property holder's disposal.

It has nothing to do with someone coming from outside and taking over a "hard worker's" stuff, but it has everything to do with workplace democracy and economic democracy.

The referenced rebuttal has more detail and examples.

.............

An excellent example of how people who have good knowledge on certain topics may not have the same level of knowledge on something else, and actually even be totally misled with gross misconceptions.
A$A$A
This well written and entertaining answer:

Balaji Viswanathan's answer to How can Communism be explained to a ten year old?

It is a mass media propaganda style and does not convey the concept.

Very lengthily and factually incorrect answer aimed at reader's emotions with the goal of making a negative connotation while keeping people ignorant.

It is a dangerous approach since the youth eventually realize there was incorrect data and start believing in ideas such as communism without understanding them. As a result, they start protesting, participating in stupid movements, dreaming about revolutions and other "communist" nonsense.

One more answer:

CJ Osborn's answer to Why do ice cubes melt faster in cold water than in boiled water?

I tried it myself:

In very hot water t=32 sec

In boiling water   t= 18 sec

In cold tap water t= 46 sec  // steering or placing under running stream does not make much difference
A$A$A
This answer by Richard Muller, professor of Physics at Berkeley, is factually incorrect, and may help perpetuate myths about the unusual properties of the number

π

π

.

In the answer, Muller asserts this about the digits in the decimal expansion of

π

π

:

Mathematically, we've never proven that no pattern exists, yet we haven't found any.

However you choose to interpret "pattern", one of these claims is false. If "pattern" refers to a simple repeating pattern, then of course we proved that no such pattern exists:

π

π

is irrational. If "pattern" means some generic structure, then of course the digits of

π

π

have one: they are defined by a very simple algorithm, just like the digits in the sequence

0.11235813213455... (Fibonacci numbers), or

0.1100010000000000000000010000... (1's in positions corresponding to

n!

n

).

Those patterns simply mean that the sequence of digits is computable.

The myth that "there's no pattern, but nobody knows why!" is, well, a myth. There are many open problems about the digits of

π

π

, but this isn't one of them.
A$A$A
Thank You for the A2A.

There are just too many to actually list all that I can tell are bogus or nearly factual or part correct or sort off on track, or this guy obviously read that book written by that scam-writer...

Sometimes reading Quora is like reading the funnies in a paper... I however was not really surprised by this. Trying to be helpful and actually having the knowledge to be helpful is obviously not the same package.

I do however still think half an answer sort off on the right track is better than nothing... Now don't confuse this with optimism. Having half an mathimatical solution does not solve the problem.. At least it is somewhere to start while being stuck in a deadlock.

Should I really be giving dating advise to some kid in Japan that is intimidated by the girl he fancies.. ? He sent out like 10 A2As used all his points and the first four answers were like bumper stickers. So I thought to myself, hell I can do better than that... the bar is so low you can trip over it.

So is the upvote system suppose to wash-out  factually incorrect ,misleading or  biased answers ... ? What ! Voting as a method to ascertain fact from fiction. Again that notion is --> Laughable <-- ,but people don't think like me and stuff I deem obvious are often met with the so classy WTF! (Now I understand the A2A was send to stress that)

Some people won't even read longer answers. Lifestyles of quick and convenience everything and reading past the first page of Google suggestions is just too much effort and the they are under the impression they did research.  These are the people voting.

To me voting is a popularity and entertainment value measure.

Does these answers pose a serious problem? Yes. Like --> The question .. What is the ideal diet for optimal brain function? 682 upvotes on an answer that is stuffed with deception.

from the answer.

Low-carb diets could also be draining your brain [11]

Even small amounts of glucose or fructose can slow down brain and memory functions[13]

That is like saying

 Well x = 4

and   x = 5

and now you're thinking well which is it...4 or 5 .. sorry neither...

(please note this is not programming x did not get a new value)

So then only get your diet advise from trained professionals ? Ugh... sorry..

trained by whom... what system did they accept like a God and then crammed thousands of pages of info into their minds at high speed so that they can past the tests and qualified and start 'helping people'.

What is so wrong about answers like this is the exceptional dedicated over achiever type people who strives to be exceptional could seriously undermine his or her potential by following 'good' advise.

There are people who strive for a higher level of living and getting some stuff wrong will undermine you and that person would be completely blind sided by their lack of performance... or worse think they have achieved their best.

This planet makes it so hard to just get a clue as to how to be a functional human being...at least on Quora you can call out answers. I am just tired of everything that needs to be a crusade.

__SO FROM here on I will just bitch about life, no need to read_______



Why the !@#$!! does everything need to be an f-ing crusade. Sunday I had to defend drinking TEA at a social function. TEA I had to defend my choice of drinking tea oppose to instant coffee..

He comes this Hercules looking rich powerful man and attacks me for  drinking tea and its not like I can leave it was my turn to work the counter.

How many lies do you have to escape just to function?

First there was all the crap you need to be to be a woman. Television and magazines full of propaganda that enslaves you to consumerism and offers nothing in return. Send all your money on crap you don't really like. bla bla bla.

Second there was all the BS about finding and ideal mate for life and your one true love Walt Disney Cinderella syndrome S@#$! Do you realize that in Alladin the man is a homeless thief that steals and kills palace guards ...

The theme song says :' a Whole new world a new exciting' that is what he is going to show her. Yeah thanks.... at least dating bad boys got me out of my glass box. Several of the other girls however are dead and forgotten.

Then there is all the stuff people just assume you know because someone was suppose to tell you about money... right... so wait what..?. your collection of nannies never gave you any financial advise...? oh, well that sucks for you... enjoy being poor and learn the extend of the mercy of the general public.. thanks that was an education in grit.

Oh and by the way three months a year you work for the government... What ? Why ? Well they need money to build schools and stuff... right... that is what they are doing with the money... nice... good to know my labor does such nice things in the world. ;-)

The never ending concatination of lies and lies and lies making even reading something to approach with caution and asking for help a possible pitfall.

and then

Then a customer wants to complain and they call you from the back and you show up and this man looks at you with this face like you're week old cheesecake in the back of the fridge and says :"You're the manager?" and walks away and you still wanted to say :" No, I'm the owner " and I stand there looking at my clothing and my shoes and I decide F!@#-it tomorrow I am coming to work with a unicorn strapped to my forehead.
A$A$A
One of the answer to this question seems factually incorrect to me.

Himanshu Kumar's answer to What highly upvoted answers on Quora are factually incorrect or misleading?

In the concerned answer it is claimed that  the following answer is factually incorrect:

What should every Indian know about IIT?

Let us examine each point made threadbare:

"You and I pay taxes" - I sincerely hope that is true and we are not evading taxes.

"Using that tax, Government subsidies studies of IIT students." -No doubt about it. The IIT campuses are the best campuses that any college in our country has. For example: IIT Delhi has a sprawling 325 acre campus in the heart of national capital Delhi -Page on google.co.in

       Take a look at this picture of IIT KGP (http://qr.ae/fosDI)

All this has been constructed and maintained by government. So, the subsidy thing is true as well.

 3. Lastly "IIT students fly to USA, and most of them work and settle there." - Now this must not be taken literally as by "USA" it is meant abroad. It can very well be Europe or Australia.

Similarly, by "most of them" the anon user is trying to convey that it is a "substantial amount" .

The facts Himanshu has quoted (Page on iitk.ac.in) are of 2004 and since then the visa liberalization has been done to a large extent. And the numbers are expected to increase.

But, still considering the data Himanshu has given:

Approximately, 24% ({100%-35%} of 37%) go abroad and never come back. Almost 1/4th IIT alum do not come back. Now, this is a big number. Think of your salary getting slashed by a quarter.

To be fair, one can argue that they send back precious remittances. But this is just for a few years for their parents or other relatives. And after that it stops. (Also, major part of remittances come from the poor guy working in middle east not from USA.)

I am not an IIT alum and to tell you the truth I wanted to be one. At the same time, I feel sad that there are not enough opportunities for talented students of IITs in our country.

But, this is not IIT bashing guys. This is the truth. Brain drain is real. We are just trying to work towards improving our country by raising a concern.
A$A$A
The risk with such a question is to be downvoted to death.

What is fundamentally wrong? I can't really say (except if you conjugate badly your subjunctive).

Therefore I'll go for unscientific and probably very wrong.

Let's try. :)

For what I can see, here are some utterly popular themes on Quora.

Category "disproved / unscientific / Barnum effect":

- Myers-Briggs type indicator as psychometric instrument

- Astrology

- Homeopathy, acupuncture, holistic medicine

- Somatotypes (body types such as ectomorph/endomorph)

Category "it's not that simple":

- Methods for six pack abs based on exercises only (despite strong struggles from brilliant Quorans, this one comes back all the time)

- Regularly, too, to a certain extent, eighteen billions of wrong nutrition "facts" based on very dubious pseudo-scientific protocols, or understood badly. Examples: antioxidants, every possible diet fad, super-foods...

- "USA is militarily invincible", "military tech gives us the upper hand, we'd win in every possible scenario", etc.

Category "seriously, that one, again?":

- the moon landing was staged

- every possible conspiracy theory

- "the gender salary gap is a myth", "feminists castrate my natural masculinity"...

- Paedophilia, trying to justify it in every possible way, or linking it to anything not heterosexual...

- every possible "mystery" debunked a hundred times

...

Quora is made by humans, for humans, and our mistakes reflects our fallibility :)

En avant les downvotes ! :)
A$A$A
Answers regarding the introduction of NGC nano-chip into INR notes.

With the recent introduction of the new 500 and 2000 INR notes by Reserve Bank Of India with effect from 10 Nov 2016, there has been rumours that the notes are embedded with NGC chips. The rumour claims that the NGC chips will help locate the position of the currency via a satellite and that the chip has been fitted in such a way that it can detect Rs 2000 notes even from 120 meters below the ground. In addition, it states that if one tries to tamper the NGC chip, the Rs 2000 will become damaged and unusable. It also states that the NCG chips work without any power source.

Now this seems pretty ambitious for any technology to be deployed in currencies. This is a canard. This is factually incorrect as RBI has not made any statements about the NCG chips being embedded during the release.

Here are the actual features of the new 500 and 2000 INR notes.

Source : Reserve Bank of India
A$A$A
The main one that comes to mind is Alon Amit’s answer posted last January, to this very question. Here is the link: Alon Amit's answer. The only reason I address it now is that it popped up again on my daily Quora list of questions that come in my email.

Alon Amit is one of my favorite writers on Quora, and I frequently upvote his math answers. He normally addresses the real question behind the question, and that way gives an answer far more useful than the answers of other mathematicians. But in this one particular case, he failed.

He cited my claim that the digits of pi were indistinguishable from a random list. He said they were not random since they could be derived from a simple formula. That is correct, but highly misleading; by that criterion, there is no list of numbers is truly random, a qualification that he didn’t note. If I were to write down a million digits, and ask Alon if they were random, I suspect he would answer no, regardless of what digits I wrote down, even if he could find no pattern. I might have sneakily picked the consecutive digits of pi, perhaps starting at digit

10

20

10

. He would not be able to tell this from any test he could perform; he would not know that fact. He would be able to detect no pattern in them, but he would still call them non-random.

Scientists typically use “pseudo-random” numbers in their work. These are numbers that pass essentially all common tests of randomness, and yet are generated by a simple code. Of course, pseudo-random numbers are not truly random, but they can be very difficult to distinguish from random numbers.

Alon might say “but this is a math comment, so it is appropriate to use the math definition.” The question actually was not about math; it was about amazing things. There is no known test that can be applied to the million digits that I mentioned earlier, the digits of pi starting at the

10

20

10

place, that would show that these million digits were not random. Similarly if I pick the next billion digits, or trillion. Alon considers them non-random because there is a hidden formula.

Presumably he would not have objected if I had said that the digits of pi could not be distinguished, using any known test, from a list of truly random numbers (assuming he allows such lists to exist). Instead, he claims I was wrong. He was incorrect in that statement. Mathematicians, in their published papers, require such careful statements as part of their rigor. In Quora answers, such qualifications often move an answer from the interesting category directly into the boring category.

You can see why I consider his answer to be incorrect. He says I am wrong, but only because he uses a definition of randomness that is highly specialized and not the one used by non-mathematicians. It reminds me of the (actually famous) mathematician friend who once told me that I could not tie a knot with my shoelaces. His reasoning: the word “knot” had been redefined by mathematicians to include only those configurations that could not be untied. Yes, mathematicians sometimes think they own the definition of the word “random” and of the word “knot” but they don’t. It would be helpful, when they use specialized definitions not used by other scientists, if they explicitly said so.

Alon used a specialized definition of “random” not used in any of the other sciences to claim that my answer was wrong. It is rare that he falls into this mistake, but he did this time. He remains my favorite Quora writer in questions of mathematics. As Muslims like to say, “Only Allah is perfect.”
A$A$A
Thanks for the A2A.

The truth is I cannot recall, or even be bothered to try and recall, which answers are undeserving of their votes.

I read most of the answers (at least page 1 or 2) of any question and make up my own mind on its merit. Sometimes I agree with the popular vote, many times I don't, most times I find several answers vote worthy and upvote them accordingly.

If there is a factual error or a bias in an answer that I strongly disagree with, sometimes I am impelled to comment on the answer and voice a correction, or my disagreement, with the author's position.

It does not matter to me if the writer has the most popular answer or is a top writer.

I expect the same treatment with my own answers - factual or subjective, and enjoy the opportunity for some wit and repartee with my enlightened or hostile correspondent.

I sometimes find myself defending one or more of my pithy answers with vigor and vim against some derisive and sometimes offensive Quorans. 

That is par for the course.

I do not understand why we rail against "bad" answers with a lot of upvotes.

Clearly the "crowd" thinks differently.

I don't have time to dissect the behaviour of the crowd. I get value from reading many answers and making up my own mind.

It is the same as an election process, where an "undeserving" candidate gets a lot of votes, with the difference that we are stuck with the idiot for a few years.

At Quora, we can move on from the questionable answer and get on with our lives.

Deal with it, would be my recommendation, and move on.

Or else, understand that there is value in debate and in the transparency of one's opinions.

Call a spade a spade, and don't hesitate to tell a writer that you think his answer is a pile of poo, and the reasons why.

Call the person out by name in your own answer and explain why he or she is wrong.

Quora will be a better place for it.

Same is true for the real world out beyond the cozy walls of Quora.

Sticks and stones may break your bones, but words will never hurt you.

Not on Quora, anyway. And that's the fun of it.
A$A$A
Himanshu Kumar's answer to What are some highly upvoted answers on Quora that are factually incorrect or misleading or strongly biased?

The irony LOL

I am not a IITian and i have nothing against IITians or IIT.If it was not for quora i would never even have came to know about IITs.

The author (and many IITians) keep pointing to this article whenever they get butt hurt when any Indian comes and questions the integrity of IITians. Now having seen this article atleast a 100 times in my feed i have decided to actually go through it instead of blindly following the headline.

1)To start with this is a 8 year old article from Times of India(You can also find one at Economic Times too i guess).Now i dont think just because you got it published it in media you should blindly accept it.

How Arun a 'scientist from NASA' fooled the Indian media for two years

2)The survey is not done by times of India.

says a study commissioned by an umbrella organisation of IIT alumni.

Seriously you want me to believe the results of a survey done by your own organisation.

3)Ok lets ignore that its done by  a organization paid by you for promoting yourself.

Zinnov Management Consulting, a private consultancy firm, which undertook the survey, arrived at this estimation by extrapolating the figures submitted by 4,573 alumni who have till date participated in the web-based survey, according to Rajan Srikanth, the coordinator for the IIT Alumni Impact Study.

(a) A not so well known private consultancy firm.

(b) extrapolating the figures submitted by 4,573 alumni

(c) participated in the web-based survey.

Now tell me what results you expect from this?...That IITians contribution is negligible.

4) Now even after 8 years you only got this and you keep re posting this garbage over and over quora. I request you Please stop this.These results are not credible. and majority of indians know this that's why

Anonymous' answer to What should every Indian know about IIT?

got so many upvotes.

Now if check the upvotes and shares for

Himanshu Kumar's answer to What are some highly upvoted answers on Quora that are factually incorrect or misleading or strongly biased?

and

Himanshu Kumar's answer to What should every Indian know about IIT?

Comes from Butt hurt IITians themselves.

PS:Lots of Downvotes coming for this from IITians.
A$A$A
How a Goof in Dark Knight was misled and appreciated to be Detailing :

This is about the hospital blow-up scene from Dark Knight (watch from 1:20):

This is the answer, which gave a wrong interpretation of the scene:

Aayush Chaturvedi's answer to What are some of the most fascinating instances of attention to detail in movies?

1.2k upvotes, the highest upvoted answer to the question.

At first, I too thought the answer was factually correct and upvoted it along with 1.2 k people. But then, one of my friends, Anojan Thevaraj, pointed out in the comments that the answer was indeed factually incorrect. And to worsen it, it seems that the scene was actually a camera/crew visibility error. Here is the snapshot.



He did accept it as his observation mistake and also pointed out the goof in the scene himself, but the fact remains that the answer is unedited or deleted.
A$A$A
Not exactly an answer, but there is a specific and very popular user (who will not be named due to the strict BNBR rules) on Quora. He has made several very questionable claims about his life in various answers on Quora. Lets list all the achievements and events that this individual has claimed happened to him in his lifetime.

He claimed to have been some super spy in Eastern Germany that killed KGB agents with his bare hands. He also has claimed to have gotten shot while being some military intelligence officer.

Infiltrated some white supremacist group and stopped a high stake robbery.

Also infiltrated the Bader-Meinhoff German terrorist group while a military intelligence officer.

Got being beaten up alongside his brother by corrupt cops to enforce a protection racket on his father’s church.

Lost his much younger fiancée to a typhoon in the Philippines.

Witnessed a drive by shooting at an early age in his neighborhood.

A struggling actor with several famous friends (such as Christopher Walken).

A battle hardened Vietnam, Grenada, and Desert Storm veteran, with two bronze stars in Vietnam. He also has claimed to have stopped his fellow soldiers from executing POWs in Vietnam, and survived his helicopter being shot down.

A civil rights activist alongside Martin Luther King jr, and King even allegedly had dinner with him and his family.

Last but not least, has apparently taken part in some shady DEA operations.

I know people’s lives tend to eventful, but that is really ridiculous. There is no way that all of those events could have happened to a single person.

Despite his political opinions being vastly different then mine, I used to enjoy reading his answers. Until I realized how totally implausible this particular user’s claims where. Plus, this individuals petty responses to skeptical readers was the nail in the coffin for me.
A$A$A
Ankit Srivastava's answer to Is Modi becoming a dictator?   that got around 2.2K upvotes.

Ignoring the outright violation of BNBR at the start, he went on say misleading points such as

Indian PM has dictatorial tendencies : He doesn't and haven't displayed it.

AAP party is giving everything free through subsidies  and is screwing up the economy: An exaggerated claim but no proof for that

This is not the only answer from Ankit Srivastava that is like this.

Ankit Srivastava's answer to Why are people praising Narendra Modi for operation Raahat? What was his contribution to this?  got 1.9K upvotes.



Here he makes a claim that the previous government will only make statements and do nothing to get Indians from strife stricken  regions of the world back home.

He forgets the largest evacuation ever done in history, the evacuation done by the Congress GOI during the 1992 Gulf War. Also in the last few years, Congress GOI also evacuated Indians from Libya.

Congress screwed up the disaster response during the  Uttarakhand floods. But it doesn't mean he can mislead the people to say Congress GOI will only fold the arms and give up.



Finally, Ankit Srivastava's answer to I miss the good old Congress days when there was much to entertain us. New scams and corruption issues happened every day. Now it's so quiet and I miss the old days. What should I do? got  more than 500 upvotes where all he did was write the below joke answer.
A$A$A
Along the same lines as Alon Amit's answer, misconceptions about

π

π

abound on Quora.  For example, in the following answer it is claimed that Newton had a (very simple) proof that

π

π

is transcendental.

Alejandro Jenkins' answer to How do you prove that a number is transcendental?

The author's main argument is that this argument appeared in a popular-math book by a non-mathematician author and printed by the MIT press; there is little else supporting his argument.  Such publications are generally not subject to nearly the same scrutiny as a peer-reviewed journal article.  Various journal articles by well-respected mathematicians on topics related to the method of proof never claim to show that

π

π

is transcendental, since this method simply cannot prove that claim.

Around the time the answer had amassed 80 or so upvotes (a fairly high number for a technical concept like this)  I posted comments pointing out the errors in the argument and wrote my own answer to the question which tries to be as honest as possible about the state of the art.  I also reported the answer for factual inaccuracy, and for a time it was collapsed for this reason.  However, the author made essentially no changes, adding only a warning that I had contested the validity of the answer and that the reader "should make up their own mind," and then uncollapsed the answer.  There is no mechanism to re-report an answer you have already reported, and apparrently the answer has not garnered sufficient downvotes to collapse it.

Mathematics is not subject to the "crowd-thinking" that the author of this answer asks us to do.  There are technical points which are completely missed in the answer and which render the answer completely flawed.  But there are pretty pictures, even though they are ultimately irrelevant.  This nonsense has no place on Quora.
A$A$A
I will point out my own ridiculously upvoted answer to Where is the best place to find a rockstar developer to bring an idea to life? which has over 400 votes more than the next highest answer.

While I stand by my answer and think it's true, I am struck by the fact that I have answered almost identical "co-founder" questions over a dozen times in various formats and always provided a useful list of websites, meetups and other resources you could actually go to. I did not provide that list in my more popular answer.

Yet these other answers which are far more useful, but clearly less funny and opinionated, usually garner 6-10 votes tops and often are not the top ranked answers.

The voting on the "creative guy" answer also follows a clear pattern. One popular person upvotes, and then there is a burst of dozens of upvotes from that person's followers. There have been a few waves like this which took the answer from 200 to +450 votes in a few days.

In addition to that, my "creative guy" answer was posted when I had many more followers on quora and started tweeting my answers.

It's pretty clear to me that popularity and marketing has a LOT to do with upvotes.
A$A$A
Here's a list posted in answer to a similar question: "What are some highly upvoted answers on Quora that are factually incorrect or misleading or strongly biased?

ANSWER WIKI

Have this question too? Re-Ask to get an answer.Most upvoted answers in this thread (about - upvotes here - upvotes of thewrong answer):

What should every Indian know about IIT? - 4k - .9k

What is the difference between Quora and Facebook? - 0.5k - 1.8k

What happens when we hear a 1000-decibel sound? - 0.4k - 7.3k

What is the most insulting thing someone said to you?? - 0.4k - 1.6k Christopher VanLang's different answers - 0.3k - variable

Highly upvoted and wrong answers, which were already pointed out in other threads:

Quora User's answer to What is it like to have a photographic (eidetic) memory? 6.1k

Alexander Freiherr's answer to debunk: What are the most amazing and interesting facts you know? 1.6k

Other important sources:

Blog about highly upvoted answers that are factually incorrect

Quora's answer to How does Quora deal with reports of factually incorrect answers?

False knowledge many people misquote as absolute facts"
A$A$A
This answer really pisses me off. It’s no longer the top voted answer to the question (though it was for a while), but despite completely failing to understand the question, the writer makes out that there is no difference in raising an adopted child when compared to raising a natural born child.

Franklin Veaux's answer to How is raising an adopted baby different from a natural-family baby?

They creep in a cheap comment about “vaginas” in order to make the answer seem “edgy”, then suggest there is no difference at all.

Really?

So, when the child asks about their birth story, you don’t have to address that differently?

So, when the child is a teenager and shouts at you, “you can’t tell me what to do, you’re not my real dad”, that doesn’t require some consideration about how to respond?

When the birth parents want to see and spend time with the adopted child, that doesn’t pose challenges for the adoptive family to deal with?

No, evidently none of those things come up for adoptive families.

This answer shows up the problems with Top Writers. Franklin is not only a top writer, but also an extremely well followed writer, and that gives them a ridiculous amount of power. This answer was and is a disgrace. They should be ashamed of themselves.
A$A$A
KJ Prince's answer to Why don’t planes fly over Tibet?

This is untrue!!

I flew from Kathmandu to Lhasa this summer. Indians use the route to get to Kailash, a holy mountain for Hindus, located in Tibet.

I even managed to capture Mount Everest from top! Rujuta Pendharkar Singh's answer to What’s the coolest thing you've seen through the window on an airplane?

Air china operates daily flights on this sector and it is one of the costliest sectors in the world!

But now, after reading his answer, people are doubting my answer. Sigh.

In fact, all these flights fly on the sector.

Image source: Tourtibet.com

Lhasa is a full-fledged airport. Mountaineers use this route to head to the base camp of Mt.Everest too.

Strategically, China too wants to develop this airport to justify development in Tibet.
A$A$A
There are always social phenomena at work in communication. Prestige of a contributor will be a highly influential factor in the amounts of upvotes an answer receives, because social hierarchies are a factor in how people structure their communities.

For determining answers that have a higher likelyhood of being helpful the key factor might be ensuring that the prestige of a contributor does not spill over between areas of expertise. So if you become popular because you are a sage of product design, this popularity should not give weight to the answers you give on questions about astronomy. But it does. If you are a great marketer with a lot of followers they will put more trust in the answers you give on other topics where both you and they are not as knowledgeable.

I would suggest that 'problematic' answers really arise out of non-experts upvoting seemingly helpful answers on niche topics where unsubstantial or sometimes even contrafactual folk wisdom trumps less known expert knowledge. One example I came across is this question about accent in foreigners: Why do so few non-native speakers of a language lose their foreign accents?

First, this is actually posted in the wrong category (at the point of writing this - sorry to use this as an example rather than contributing to the question). Accent does not belong to the linguistic realm of semantics, but rather phonology and language acquisition. Some people who do seem to have knowledge of linguistics address the question from their point of view, but their answers remain invisible while the highest rated question is quite obviously posted by someone who does not know about concepts like categorical perception (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cat...) making adult speakers blind (or rather deaf) to variations in phoneme inventories across languages.

I mean no disrespect to the person taking the time to be helpful. I would not even trust that my own understanding of linguistics is more thorough than the view that is expressed in this answer, nor that 'expert knowledge' would really always translate to universally be the most helpful answer in niche topics.

Still, from my point of view the most popular answer in this and other cases is not necessarily the one that is substantiated by deeper insight or understanding. But I would selfishly hope that mechanisms emerge to promote just that. Because I hold those answers to be the most helpful.
A$A$A
Please do go through this link before going through my answer.

Anonymous' answer to What are some facts about India that Indians are generally unaware of?

The amount of bullshit that this answer has made me wonder where this world is going to :P. And people I am not particularly inclined to argue about the goodness of Rama and Raavan.

This dude right here gave an answer and it managed to gather considerable number of upvotes. I will now explain the bullshit in this.

Apparently this dude forgot the random Sanskrit sources that he referred to gather his information.

This sister who had equal rights did not know that if a person is uninterested, he has to be left alone and not fling herself on him.

And about animal harassing, where people cited the case of Jatayu and Hanuman’s tail being lighted he gives some explanations which will put even politicians to shame.

Unluckily an emperor who is in his castle did not have some wood and a few craftsman who could make him a few weapons.

COMING TO THE MOST IMPORTANT POINT: A fair and just king whose colourful sister got mutilated by a “dark” man(he said that)when she proposed his brother, comes and takes away a helpless lady instead of taking revenge directly on the husband for which he had the means and motive and is in the right side of justice…. So why did he not do so? :O

And in chapter 2 point 5 it was mentioned that foreign invaders who came to India termed vegetarianism as Hinduism. The first significant foreign invader was Alexander in 326 B.C and apparently Hinduism did not exist before that…. LOL!!

Lastly it was mentioned

20th Century India. One news channel broadcasted an event that

“A hindu person beat 5 SC people because they ate beef”

This statement itself is not grammatically correct and people believe that it is a headline and upvotes followed.

I am actually being quite bitter here.

Btw I guess the sleeping giant eats parathas and palak panner when he woke up.

And people who want to oppose this answer, please explain the logical point where a powerful and just king abducts a “wrongful” person’s wife to get a sorry for his sister. :O
A$A$A
Relax guys even the most upvoted answer on Quora was WRONG! at the time it was the number one:

Oliver Emberton's answer to What's an efficient way to overcome procrastination? >33k upvotes (info updated June 2015)



I'm going to choose, by way of example, something that will surely annoy others, but the most highly upvoted answer on Quora, Oliver Emberton's answer to How do I get over my bad habit of procrastination? sounds great but is just flat out bad neuroscience.

The answer is great advice wrapped in neuro-nonsense, but it sounds good and the neurosciency bits lend it authority. It's how Gladwell makes his money. It's how Jonah Lehrer got famous before he was unveiled as a fraud.

It's a very popular way of writing that appeals to intellectuals which means answers with that flavor do very well on Quora: a site that prides itself on its intellectualism.

Today's hot answer to Logos: What are the little known things about some famous logos? keeps showing up in my feed. It has a nice little story about the brilliance of Apple's logo design. But it's incorrect. But it's so cool and mathy and stuff that we want it to be right.

- Neuroscience PhD Bradley Voytek

from Quora: What turns people off about Quora?
A$A$A
600+ upvotes when I am writing this.

Why did the RBI withdraw currency notes of Rs 5000 and Rs 10000 from the market?

I feel the answer

Doesn't answer the question.

Doesn't give any authentic sources.

No central bank uses that ratio mentioned in the answer to determine the highest denomination or to withdraw a currency from circulation.

For India, refer rbi.org.in Ch. 3, Sec. 24 Denomination of notes

RBI did not withdraw 5000 and 10000 notes for that reason in the past.

Why RBI withdrew?

Source: Reserve Bank of India

On top of it, The author himself acknowledges he doesn't know much about it.

Last but not the least, The ratio doesn't have a name or recognition.
A$A$A
By nature Quora's voting is influenced more heavily by the number of follower you have than the quality of your answers.  The more folks that see your post, the more likely you will get a vote.

Most answers are subjective.  That said, more attention means more chance of being voted (up or down).  Since attention is limited, so are votes.

There is a window for a vote directly related to the viewing of an answer.  If someone with a lot of followers posts their answer first, then it is more likely that answer will get voted on, than later answers by posters that do not have as great an audience.

At the same time the likelihood of an answer being voted up does reflect the popularity of the poster. The more affinity you have for the poster the more likely you will have affinity for their answer.

Why is Zynga creating RewardVille when they already have in-game currency for their existing games?

To answer Robert's question below, in the above link I do not argue that the order of answers is wrong, but that qualitatively my answer is on par with the other three, but has 1 votes while the others (that have a larger following) have 5 or more votes.

I think Quora is still the best game in town, but it does pay to read more than one answer.
A$A$A
Ironically enough Lucas Cutrim's answer to What is the most damaging fake news in history? . 3100 upvotes for an answer, not just factually incorrect, not just listing a fake fact to support the narrative of fake news, but also perpetuating 19th century anti-semitic propaganda.

Michael McClennen and Toby Hayek in the comments tried to make the facts straight, but with seemingly little success:

Wikipedia has a different account. Not that it is always the most accurate source, but in this case I believe it, especially since a number of sources are referenced:

In one instance, the family network enabled Nathan to receive in London the news of Wellington's victory at the Battle of Waterloo a full day ahead of the government's official messengers.[21]

Rothschild's first concern on this occasion was not to the potential financial advantage on the market which the knowledge would have given him; he and his courier immediately took the news to the government.[21]

It was then repeated in later popular accounts, such as that of Morton.[23][24]

The basis for the Rothschild's most famously profitable move was made after the news of British victory had been made public. Nathan Rothschild calculated that the future reduction in government borrowing brought about by the peace would create a bounce in British government bonds after a two-year stabilisation, which would finalise the post-war restructuring of the domestic economy.

I believe that more than an anti-semitic sentiment, a subconscious desire to find the original sin of modern economic system, make people very inclined to buy the story.
A$A$A
I happen to stumble upon this answer today. What annoyed me the most about it was how the writer tends to generalize things so quickly and deduce a conclusion based on one subjective incidence.

NOTE: I don't intend to offend the writer.

The question asks " BITTER TRUTH ABOUT IIT ".

The answer goes somewhat like this.

To make such a claim that "MOST PROFESSORS HATE YOU" requires strong cognizance of behaviors of large number of professors. And i think making such, highly generalized, statements that too from under the hood, adds to the 'question mark' that i have on the integrity of the answer.

The answer is narrates an incidence as follows.

Alright, every one has a bad day. And as my "anonymous" friend points out, "to err is to human" , i say, "to show moments of anger is also to human". But then what adds to my contempt of this answer is one following remark that the writer makes in the final paragraph.

"Sir, this attitude of yours add to all those suicide"

Well, the authority with which the writer again makes this claim is quite miss-leading and creates a tainted and faux impression of an institute. I think the writer mush again go through the suicide data before bringing such serious discretion to light.

P.S: The answer is not highly Upvoted, (if i consider the count of high Upvotes to be in K's) but i think it might be on its spree of Upvotes, due to the crude and unflinching conclusion drawn in the answer.
A$A$A
Rishu Sinha's answer to Let's say I don't believe the world is round. How can one prove the world is round to me?

This answer may have 3300 upvotes at the time of writing, but it is misleading on two counts.

The first is that it only proves that the earth is not flat, not that it is round.

Secondly, this is possible only if you are reasonably close to Mount Everest.

The errors were shown by Man Shan Chan and Alan Marble in the comments over 10 days ago, but the answer has remained as it is.
A$A$A
It may or may not be wrong, but Ron Maimon's answer to How did life begin on Earth? is his own hypothesis based on some fairly idiosyncratic ideas.

Specifically, it's based on the ideas that the difference between life and non-life is that life can do Turing-complete computations; that the activity of proteins should be considered computations; that the first life-like activity was networks of interacting proteins at an oil-water interface; and that Stephen Wolfram's ideas from "A New Kind of Science" are a relevant way to look at the problem.

It's also pretty much pure theory, and doesn't touch on the ongoing chemistry research on abiogenesis at all.

The answer is incorrect in saying that RNA can't replicate itself. Here's a good recent experiment. It's probably incorrect in saying that RNA can't form abiotically. You can't make it by attaching the bases to a sugar backbone, but it looks like you can make a base and its section of backbone as a single unit: we've established this for pyramidines, and have a promising way forward for purines. (With that said, I'm definitely open to the possibility that peptide nucleic acids or threonine nucleic acids predated RNA).

Again, this is not to say that Ron's wrong; he could be right. I just find it unsatisfying that there's no answer on that page giving a mainstream account, like there is on Biochemistry: What are the chemical origins of life?
A$A$A
Jayesh Dhanvanthri's answer to Between Mark Zuckerberg and Elon Musk, who is more selfish? Why?

As per this answer Divya narendra is the ‘original founder ‘ of facebook.

The OP provides no proper reliable sources to defend his claims. Maybe it’s just the ;Social network’ movie after effect.

4.1l+ upvotes for this answer. Speaks volumes about the people here
A$A$A
Here is what in my opinion is highly misleading (not an answer, but a post):

Is [this food] healthy? by Craig Good on Assorted Topics Primer

I think that this is a classic example where the quality of a post suffers at the expense of a deliberately contrarian viewpoint (to generate views of course).

“All food is healthy.”

No, all food is not healthy. The author supports this claim by stating that food is something that provides the body with nutrients. While this is correct, there is absolutely no causality between something being a food and being healthy. The only correct statement in this case is: X is a food, therefore X is a food. But that is just a tautology, devoid of factual content.

No, stir fried pizza topped off with Salt and Vinegar crisps is never a healthy option. Ever.

Wait, there might actually be one instance where the statement can be correct. Imagine this: you have not eaten anything for 5 days and are on the verge of starvation. You stumble across X, which is edible and devour it in a few minutes. In this case of course, anything that provides you with nutrients is healthy.

But in our (Quorans’) daily lifes, this scenario is pretty rare. Running around looking for anything that is edible is no longer our primary concern. We have the ‘luxury’ of choosing our food and doing so wisely.

But of course, some of us are obsessing about our choices way too much and this is what damages us psychologically. I completely agree with Craig on this.
A$A$A
22.1k upvotes. The link to the long answer : Suchi Dey's answer to Why are some Indians so furious about the BBC documentary 'India's Daughter'? Why did the government of India ban this documentary film?

The gist of the answer was an emotionally charged "Not all men are the same" answer, claiming that the documentary portrayed all Indian men in a negative light. Since this was the one of the first answers to the question, it recieved the most upvotes.

 Other answers to the question, with a huge number of upvotes, shamelessly bring up statistics as a consolation, claiming that India isn't as bad as other countries, and therefore this documentary is racist.

As for my answer that tried to be neutral, well, 35 people did their bit to increase the number of views.
A$A$A
I feel Robert Frost's answer to Which movie website is better: IMDb or Rotten Tomatoes? comes under this category.

I am a big fan of Mr. Frost's answers, most of which are very informative. This answer, however, is just his personal opinion which he tried to justify with false numbers.

As per his answer,

It (IMDB) is dominated by teenage boys with undeveloped tastes.

Now, this statement is both factually incorrect and Sexist. Frost refers to Robert Frost's answer to Why do you think a score on IMDb does not reflect performance at the box office? to justify his statement.

Why is this statement wrong?

Firstly, top 25 movies are not a representative of all the movies listed on IMDB. Even if they were, teenage males do not constitute a majority (or anywhere near that). 84% of reviewers are males, and 54% of total reviewers are between 18-29. This implies roughly 45% of reviewers are males in 18-29 age. Technically, teenage includes 18 and 19, so roughly only 9-10% of reviewers are teenage males.

On being confronted with these numbers through the comments, Mr. Frost swiftly deleted my comments and clicked the 'Block' button. I am not desperate to get myself unblocked, and I could not care less about this. I just feel a fallacy like this should be brought forward. Even the brightest minds are allowed to make mistakes, one should be humble enough to accept them. :)
A$A$A
Usman Nasir's answer to Is Malala Yousafzai overrated, i.e., does she deserve the Nobel, does she deserve as much media attention as she receives, et cetera?

This answer is currently at 18,000 upvotes. The writer is unhappy with a young girl who was championing for female education in Afghanistan. She was shot in the head by a Taliban assassin and is currently on the hit list for radical religious groups.

Part of his reasoning is that:

She has been meeting up and getting support from celebrities like Madonna, Justin Biber…

So, she gets support from popular singers and…??? I don’t understand what that has anything to do with the question.

But 18,000+ readers liked his answer.
A$A$A
Max Levchin's answer here is a good example.  Why is he the choice for top?  I see no particular reason why he should stand out from the other answers other than his popularity:

What are some good pieces of music to listen to while coding?

Ev Williams answer here is interesting, but I also see no reason why he should be top over some of the others:

What is the best dim sum restaurant in San Francisco to go to with children?

I just created a topic for Badly Upvoted Answers so feel free to add your own
A$A$A
This post What are some jokes/memes on Narendra Modi? has become a heaven for spam votes. The post asks about jokes on Indian politician Narendra Modi, but actually most of the upvoted answers are jokes on other politicians like Shashi Tharoor/Manmohan singh or the Indian Media, while portraying Narendra Modi as a saviour/hero.

Here is the evidence of Mass hypnosis(Or maybe spam):

What are some jokes ON Narendra Modi? (7.3k votes)

Here are some users pointing out the mass hypnosis

What are some jokes ON Narendra Modi?

Most of the good answers have been downvoted & collapsed.
A$A$A
To answer the question:

http://qr.ae/1b4if

(126 upvotes)

The topmost answer is delightful, but it's hardly the most memorable commercial of all time.

http://qr.ae/1b4VM

(121 upvotes)

Funny as the topmost answer is, it doesn't really answer the question.

http://qr.ae/1b4iG

(279 Upvotes)

Pocahontas is not an alien invasion movie.  (The question topics are: movies, movie story and plot themes, and extraterrestrial life)

I would post more but the Quora app is bugging out (again)…

...And as we speak Quora is once again modifying things on the iPhone for the worse.  They removed the "share" link from posts.  Really??  Anyway...

Here's another one:

http://www.quora.com/What-is-the...

(1872 Upvotes)

Topmost answer is not a joke.
A$A$A
Jay Bazzinotti's answer to What are the most weird or freakish things that blow our minds?

This answer has 5.6k upvotes but the answer is factually as incorrect as any can be. Even the simplest math doesn't add up.

I like the story of the Varyag, the  Chinese aircraft carrier made by the Soviets that the Americans tried to  prevent them from getting.

The story goes back many years to  the 1970s. In an attempt to challenge the Americans the Russians decided  to build a pair of aircraft carriers, the Khunyetsov and the Varyag.  The Khunyestov was completed but the Russians lacked much of the  technology employed by the West, for example, they had no catapults for  their planes, so they build ski jumps on the front of the carrier. This  does work, but it also acts as a big sail on the front of the ship.

While  the Khunyetsov was fitting out, the Varyag was being completed by the  Ukrainians on the Black Sea. Being built by the Russians, the Khunyetsov  promptly caught fire and broke down on its first mission and had to be  towed back to port where it sat for four years. Meanwhile, the Soviet  Union was starting to unravel. In order to save money the work on the  Varyag was halted and whatever could be used on the Khunyetsov was taken  off the Varyag and put on the other carrier. For awhile Varyag was used  for other purposes such as a barracks, a shore side prison, a warehouse  and so on. But little by little all the valuable materials and metals  started disappearing from the ship. After awhile the Varyag was a  massive rusting hulk listing heavily and totally abandoned. Almost  anything of value was gone. The Soviet Union had broken  up and the poor  Varyag was of no interest to anyone. It fell into the hands of the  Ukranians who were also not interested in a poorly built and designed  Russian aircraft carrier that was only 60 percent complete, rusting,  filling with water and listing at an abandoned pier.

Suddenly,  the Argentine Tourist Commission entered the picture. They offered to  buy the billion-dollar ship for something like 2 million dollars. Their  plan was to float it to Argentina and make it into a gigantic floating  casino and hotel with a golf course on the massive deck. The Russians  grabbed the money and the Ukranians were happy to see the ship leave. It  was pumped out and attached to two large ocean-going tug boats and  towed from port.

Meanwhile, the CIA went to Turkey and convinced  them not to allow the Varyag to pass through the Straits of Bosphorous.  The Turkish government told the tugs they could not move the ship using  the flimsy excuse that the ship might sink and block the shipping  channel. For most people that would have been the end of it. But for  three years the ocean going tugs were paid to tow the Varyag around the  Black Sea. The CIA watched in hope the ship would capsize in a storm or  rot through and sink, but it did not. Finally, one night, the tug boats  were finally able to slip the carrier through the Straits.

(Here we see the listing, rusty  Varyag being towed around the Black Sea)



Only  the ship didn't head for Argentina. They headed for China. The  "Argentine Tourist Commission" was a front for the Chinese navy. The CIA  was very angry. The Turks were embarrassed. The Chinese got a  sixty-percent complete aircraft carrier that they hired the British to  re-design and refit in a Chinese dockyard for only 2 million dollars.  Here is the Varyag today as Liaoning, the first Chinese aircraft  carrier, courtesy of the bankrupt Soviet Union and the Argentine Tourist  Commission.
A$A$A
One myth I keep stumbling upon on Quora has to do with brassieres. It states that bras allegedly prevent breast sagging. Trustworthy source on the myth’s being a myth is available here: Sagging breasts I fear, from not wearing brassiere. While an example of an incorrect answer is below:

Neha Singh's answer to Do women really need bras? Why?

Another case, though this time “misleading” is the word, as the answer doesn’t really repeat the myth if you read carefully. However with its prevalence it’s likely to be the first thought of a reader, and in fact some argued about it in the comments:

Lou Davis' answer to Why do women/girls wear bras?
A$A$A
Well I think its none other than from the king of quora Balaji Vishwanathan whom I also follow and admire but not with this answer which got a massive 15K+ upvotes  Balaji Viswanathan's answer to What would happen if 1 USD = 1 INR?

Now neither I am jealous of him neither I am anywhere near to his knowledge but he gave a very impractical scenario of when  $1 = 1₹ and you don't need to be an expert in economics to figure out that.

 Though you can ask any experts for your satisfaction and I bet he will also agree that it is indeed impractical. 

The very thing impractical about the scenario is that he considered no changes in inflation which is impossible to happen and will definitely decrease in this instance . All in all  he theoretically proved that such case will be a very negative scenario from India's perspective which will not be case in reality. In such a case rupee will be much stronger , and for selling an exported item of rs 1( instead of Rs 60) we will get a dollar and purchasing  an imported item of $1 we only have to give ₹1(instead of 60) so in short our purchasing power will become 60 times more powerful than now. You are most welcome to point out any fault or misconception I have presented according to you.

By this answer I want you to realise that dont blindly support or praise something or someone just because someone intellectual is saying that.For eg.  many people are in delusion that Manmohan Singh was a great finance minister and did a great job in 1991 . Well in reality he just sold out the nation , devalued the currency and mortgaged our gold and dragged our nation in massive debts whose burden is on the shoulders of coming generations .But no since he is phd in economics he might have done something great right!!!. Same thing with kejriwal , he is an iitian he can't be wrong. Subramaniam swamy- He is a professor in harvard university etc etc he is always right. I think you got the point.
A$A$A
I noticed that many of the questions on Quora can't have a factually correct answer, like this one for example.

If you look at: Highly upvoted answers that may be factually incorrect - it says that the top answers for Infrastructure: Are all power lines in Switzerland really underground? are incorrect, although both #1 and #2 mention that *generally* all power lines are underground, not all.

At most, you'll get example of answers that don't match the general view on things or miss some bit of information, but given the format of Quora questions in general I don't think there are any 100% wrong top answers with 3 digit upvotes (I hope not).
A$A$A
Abhinav Maurya's answer to Is there any famous story of an IITian who has cheated in IIT-JEE? I rest my case.
A$A$A
User-10441744444621462580's answer to India: What are things that make Indians sad?

this answer till now get 1.5k+ upvotes

intially i want to comment directly on answer but i observed how people speaking against this answer are ignored or simply their comment got deleted.recently in india there is rise of right wing hindu extremism so answer which is have slightly of “ hindus are victim “ touch will got massive upvotes without even check the actual facts.

so let me first pinpoint what is actually incorrect in his answer

And yes, an actor named his son after a mass murderer, a rapist, and a savage barbarian.

When asked “why did you name your son after such a person?”

Saif’s reply was “Timur was a great conqueror, and there are many people who think of him as a god. Even Ashoka was a barbaric killer, but people can still name their children after him.”

just go and asked him about source of this interview ,let’s see he can provide it or not

because saif ali khan never spoke those words in none of his interview

this is what he said about his son named as a taimur

I should have added a disclaimer: Saif Ali Khan on Taimur’s name

Now, Khan has opened up about his son’s name. Mumbai Mirror has quoted him saying, “I’m aware of the heritage of the Turkish ruler and my son was not named after him. He was Timur, my son is Taimur. Perhaps the root is similar but it’s not the same name. Taimur is an ancient Persian name meaning iron. Both my wife and I liked its sound and the meaning. In fact, of all the names I ran by Kareena, she liked this one the best because it’s beautiful and strong. Taimur was the name of a boy he’d grown up with and a cousin too. It’s an old family name like Sara who was also named after a cousin I admired.”

he is just crooked up whole story to suit his own imagination more shameful thing is indians who upvoted this answer not even once tried to asked source of his mentioned interview
A$A$A
May as well start maintaining a list here...

Leo Abrahamian's answer to What are five odd or generally unknown facts about outer space?

I don't think it's malicious, but the author gets a lot of his facts wrong (I noted some of them in a comment). The "facts" are stated very authoritatively; if I didn't know better, I'd likely come away thinking I'd learned something. Currently at 870 upvotes.
A$A$A
The following answer has +1.5k upvotes introducing Richard Stallman as "the father of Open Source software":



Look what happened when someone else also introduced him  to an audience as the father of Open Source movement: (min 2:47)
A$A$A
Shiv Raj's answer to What are the cool examples of "girls will be girls"?

This shamelessly sexist answer in excess of 700 upvotes, under the cliched question "what are the cool examples of girls will be girls?".  There's another one for "boys will be boys" too but that's a different story. Given the stereotypical nature of expected answers, still this answer has nothing to do with any commonly cited characteristics of women , it generalizes all of them as unable to function with simple machines.

These stereotype promoting kind of questions should be collapsed in the first place. Do report this.
A$A$A
The top voted answer on this question Why is U2 so popular? is extremely well written, entertaining but not factually accurate, at least in its portrayal of a typical U2 concert.

The depiction of a U2 show as a Greatest Hits setlist that opens and closes with well known songs and only includes two songs from their latest album simply isn't correct, as setlists from their most recent tour show.

U2360° at the Rose Bowl

He may have nailed the average U2 audience at a US show. I'm honestly not sure. But his depiction of a U2 show is way out.

But I guess it's been upvoted because it's well written, amusing and a lot of people really don't like U2.
A$A$A
Paul Stockley's answer to Why are "big rigs" often called "semis"? Semi-what?

Since I called out what I believe is the inaccuracy of this answer in the comments, I guess I have a duty to post it here.   In a nutshell, Paul claims that the term "semi-truck" is derived from the type of hitch used (a "semi-oscillating fifth wheel"), while it appears that the term "semi-truck" predates the invention of this type of hitch and significantly predates that particular term.
A$A$A
This is one of my most passionate subjects. Despite the fact that the rh negative blood factor was discovered in 1937, there are still many unnecessary complications women suffer during their pregnancies due to ignorance of physicians. Last September I have blogged about a few examples on Quora where people either give themselves fake credentials or medical professionals actually come here on Quora giving the wrong advice. The way that I see it: There are two types of medical professionals.

Medical workers and researchers.

Medical workers come here to show off rather than making sure their answers are straight … all too often, not always of course.

What bothers me tremendously is the unwillingness from the admin team on Quora to encourage correct answers and require more information when someone gives himself a credential. When it comes to common knowledge, the answers here are usually correct. Actually you will see many of the same answers and questions regarding common knowledge here. Too much. Which makes you wonder why a doctor would take the time answering something that has been answers by non medical professionals many time.

Quora is quick to delete anything I write if the tone is not friendly enough. Yet the posts I have pointed out which are often so misleading that if followed the consequences can be substantial are still up there and even get upvotes.

What gives?
A$A$A
Virtually every answer about the American political system, in particular lobbying. Look, I get it -- we all hate politicians and lobbyists. But still, people looking to those answers for reliable information typically find nothing but a stream of people insisting that every Member of Congress is a murdering war criminal, that every state senator takes bribes from shady Indonesian timber barons, etc.

It doesn't work like that.
A$A$A
It might be difficult to find an answer for this question.

Answers which are bad/factually incorrect would generally be voted down. So essentially they are hidden, so nobody would really have an answer to this.

Unless they were able to write the post in such a way that it were not only convincing but didn't cause anybody to fact check them, they wouldn't get away with it.
A$A$A
This answer is factually incorrect. It's a sad reflection on the Quora community that it has received so many upvotes in spite of it having been proven to be wrong in the comments.

Rahul Kawadkar's answer to What are some footballing feats that you think will stand the test of time?
A$A$A
This answer to 'How can Quora balance openness and quality?' has garnered 16 upvotes at the time of writing, despite the fact that it

rambles;

is self-indulgent;

features unnecessary pictures that distract from the points the author is trying to make;

contains entire paragraphs that are muddled and don't really make a point (e.g. item #3);

conveys little in the way of genuine, proactive insights addressing the challenges facing Quora as it grows, instead being content to cite some of the social design patterns that Quora already implements;

doesn't helpfully map patterns to concrete implementation aspects;

does more to inform the reader about Robert Scoble than to address the crux of the question.
A$A$A
I saw one from an Indian physics student that contained a whole bunch of incorrect algebra around the topic of special relativity. I looked over it twice and decided I wasn't going to reverse engineer it to find the error. Hard going to review as the equations were all "upside down" compared to the classic formulation used by Einstein, Lorentz et al. This led me to the insight he had probably divided by zero somewhere, from which you can conclude about anything, notably his assertion that an object at rest is also travelling at the speed of light. Tell that to my couch.

As of now it has nearly 1,000 upvotes. Few people know special relativity, and the general public's perception is "it's voodoo" so the dual velocity thing seems quite plausible if you don't have a science education.

I can only hope he isn't at IIT Madras.
A$A$A
This one answer of mine:

Ketan Bagga's answer to What is the best sentence you have ever heard? Why do you consider it to be the best?

The person who asked the question wanted a one liner, while what I posted was an entire stanza. Few people pointed out later about my mistake, but by then the answer was already popular and got more than 900 upvotes.

PS. I'm sure it's not the most upvoted one, but certainly one of them! And I don't regret posting it, because it made sense, in my opinion. :)
A$A$A
The details on “What are some websites that contain inspiring videos of leaders and thinkers, besides TED? How do these differ?” explicitly state “other than TED” but the first answers were both “look at ted.com”. It took some while for those to get voted down, but in the end, it worked.
A$A$A
This answer Kasper Fredenslund's answer to What weighs more: an empty 32GB flash drive or a fully loaded 32GB flash drive? If data is nothing but an arrangement of electrons, how does it affect the weight of a flash drive? has 21k+ upvotes.

Its main premise that flash drive is heavier when full because of the difference in number of trapped photons is refuted by other answers and comments.
A$A$A
Thanks for AtA!

I observed this completely true. I have seen in many questions, the correct and best answers only could get few upvotes whereas incorrect, or at least inaccurate, answers from non-experts several hundreds upvotes. I am not sure how it works in Quora, but apparently followers of an answerer blindly upvote her (his) answer, no mater they really understand the question and the answer or have any expertise in the art.

There are also some members with a large number of "followers" that answer "any" question, regardless of their knowledge and expertise.

This is just my observation.
A$A$A
In my opinion this answer Uddhav's answer to What useful trick/hack(s) could save one’s life if he/she is in danger? is misleading.

It basically says that by putting the water bottle(with ice in it) under the jacket we won't lose our heat to melt the snow in the bottle. But the problem is the laws of thermodynamics remain the same and because our body is the only heat generator here we will lose our body heat to warm the ice.
A$A$A
Very misleading:-

1. Ankush Takyar's answer to What are the most beautiful (because of its design, what it symbolizes, or its context) logos you've ever seen?

Correction to the above mentioned answer: Does the Apple logo really adhere to the golden ratio?
A$A$A
Shubhankar Srivastava's answer to Is the state of Bihar a burden on India? Why or why not, and will it ever change?

This answer is a collection of in-conclusive and incorrect facts which lead to nowhere.
A$A$A
I've seen this a number of times. However, in a couple of cases I was involved in, the person with the incorrect answer either corrected or deleted their answer once they were convinced it was incorrect. Pointing out that it is incorrect and explaining why is useful.
A$A$A
This seems to be very biased answer when we see many businesses running in name of sharmas, agarvals, and many more.

Updesh Bhadoriya's answer to What makes you sad about people living in India?
A$A$A
I will not mention any one in particular, but it may be helpful to the question followers to know that there is a Bloarg about them:

Highly upvoted answers that may be factually incorrect
A$A$A
I think this qualifies as one of the best examples of revisionist history on Quora:

Anonymous' answer to What is the real reason the United States waged war against Iraq? Beyond the commonly cited explanation of WMDs, which of the many theories is most credible?
A$A$A
"Barack Obama deserved Nobel peace prize"
A$A$A
Is Jimmy Wales always right? Because all his answers are 2k
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
Can I sue a credit agency for posting incorrect information in my credit report?
A$A$A
Note: I am not a lawyer, and I wouldn’t post legal advice on Quora if I was. The following is my layman’s understanding. If you want something reliable, ask a lawyer who is expert in FCRA law.

The Fair Credit Reporting Act defines the obligations of the credit reporting agency (CRA). It places the burden on the consumer to detect errors and notify the CRA. If I dispute the error and the CRA does not meet its obligations under the FCRA as a result of my dispute, then I may have grounds to sue. To win monetary damages, I think I would have to show evidence that the CRA willfully failed to comply (section 616 of the FCRA) or negligently failed to comply (section 617 of the FCRA), and that I suffered actual damages as a result (that I can put a monetary value to). As James Spray can tell you, it’s hard to prove negligence and my lawyer would probably need to hire an expert witness to establish any large estimate of actual damages, so I would think my chances of winning a lot of money under section 617 are not great unless the case is super-obvious (e.g. an employer won’t hire me for a job paying a lot more than the one I have now, and I have documentary evidence that the only reason they won’t is that my credit report says I’m deceased, even though I have documentation that shows the credit bureau received conclusive proof that I’m alive, months prior to me applying for the job).

Therefore, if I were in a more normal situation I would dispute the incorrect information with the credit bureau (providing proof that it is wrong), document everything, and see what happens. If they correct it, then that’s the end of it. If they willfully don’t correct it, I would apply for a large auto loan and get offered a high interest rate (to establish damages), then I would sue in small claims court so I wouldn’t have to pay for a lawyer.
A$A$A
Yes of course, but before that, spending a lot of your time and money for action,

why not apply them from proper official channels with proper evidence to fix it… The moment the flawed info is fixed (even though data is related to years before) so will your credit report and your credit score…
A$A$A
In the vast majority of cases, no. You can follow the proper process and argue that something on your report is wrong or should not be there. The reporting agency is then required to verify the information or remove it.

If you have proof that it shouldn’t be there or is wrong, have followed the necessary requirements to have it modified, and the agency refuses to remove it … THEN you have grounds to speak to an attorney or to file in small claims court. Keep in mind, though, these agencies have been doing this a VERY LONG time. They aren’t usually wrong, and when they are, they usually fix it. USUALLY, it’s just people that don’t think they should be held responsible for as along as the reporting period. If a person defaulted on a loan 5 years ago, then fixed….it’s still going to be on the report.
A$A$A
Of course you can. Any one can sue any entity or individual at any time. This is America and, this is the American way.

Do you have the resources to sue? By resources, I mean a lot of money or a relative with a law license that is willing do do your bidding for no fee?

To paraphrase Abraham Lincoln, as a country lawyer, ‘you get as much justice as you can afford.’

As an expert witness, I have researched and written opinions detailing the errors about which credit reporting agencies have paid to settle.

Let’s define “a lot of money”, when it comes to suing an entity or individual. In the Denver, CO area 8 years ago, one needed about $40,000.00 as an initial retainer to be considered by a litigator to launch such a lawsuit. This did not include going to trial.

A better question may be phrased along the line of: How does one correct an error on a credit report?
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
How can I remove incorrect information from my credit report?
A$A$A
I recently put together a Do It Yourself Credit Repair video that will walk you through eight simple steps that you can take today that will improve your credit score. The eight steps include:

1. Get your credit reports from Transunion, Equifax, and Experian.

2. Find errors/inaccuracies.

3. Research and learn what’s needed to dispute found inaccuracies.

4. Draft a dispute letter. See below.

5. Use certified mail.

6. Follow up, follow up, follow up.

7. Handwritten letter over disputing online.

8. Reflect

The video also includes a sample letter that you can use. Simply add your information to the credit dispute letter where applicable and mail it out. Feel free to comment on YouTube and ask me any questions that you may have. All the best.
A$A$A
Get a copy of your credit reports from the three national credit bureaus. (They are independent bureaus and each report is slightly different). You are entitled to free copies every year.

First, identify the false information on EACH report.

Next, prepare the supporting documents for each item you're planning to dispute. For example, if a bill was paid, get the statement showing this, and include the date/time it was paid and a contact name of possible.

Write letter(s) explaining your position to each bureau.

Send the dispute letter(s), including supplementary documents, via certified mail, or file online.

You must do this for EACH bureau to ensure it is completely removed from your credit history.

Credit bureaus are required to respond/remove bad information within 30 days.

Feel free to message me should you need further advice.

Good luck.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What can I do if the information on my Georgia background report is incorrect and I believe this has been prevented me from getting a job for a six year period?
A$A$A
Assuming you're not making enough to pay a lawyer, which is probably what you need, you should look to a legal aid office and the ACLU for help.  You might try writing to your state representative and ask for his/her help or  suggestions.  If people with a similar name to yours committed offenses that have been mis-applied to your record, you need to help the records keepers get them fixed.  Also, request a free credit report from all three credit reporting agencies. Handle issues there.

Best of luck, my friend.

please reply with what you learn during this process.  It will not only help others but become a record to you can refer to during your journey. If you may not want to share every detail here, but keep a log/journal of those.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
Can I sue my previous auto insurer for reporting incorrect information to a national vehicle history website causing my car to be devalued?
A$A$A
Not an insurance question, but I know in this country you can sue whomever you want for whatever reason, but of course sometimes it could end up costing you.

I am always about civility first. Get in touch with you prior insurance company and find out how you can work with them to correct the situation, if there is actually something that needs to be corrected.
A$A$A
Of course you can. You can sue anyone for anything. The suit would be a complete non-starter, but you could file it. You would spend thousands or tens of thousands of dollars in a futile attempt to recover perhaps a few thousand dollars in damages, or you would be saved some money when the judge dismissed your suit, but you could do it.

You would essentially be suing the insurance company for “slandering” the value of your car and thereby potentially costing you some money, but in order to succeed in the suit, you would have to prove that what the company reported, they KNEW or had reason to know was inaccurate, and further (and this is the important part) that they INTENDED to harm you by doing so. Then you would have to prove by a preponderance of evidence, just how much monetary loss you suffered as a result, and the whole time, you would be paying a lawyer by the hour to pursue this action for you.

It would, in my view, be a completely insane and self-destructive endeavor. There is roughly a zero chance that you would recover anything close to what it would cost you to pursue it.

But you could do it if you wanted to.
A$A$A
Devalued is a meaningless term unless you can show that you can only sell your car for that price and the information is factually incorrect versus subjective. But, few use CarFax or AutoCheck when buying a used car from a private party unless they need financing.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What are your personal rules and limitations on Quora?
A$A$A
I’ll start by posting Gigi J Wolf’s limitations, and how I’ve broken them:

The Lupine Commandments by Nick Nicholas on Opɯdʒɯlɯklɑr In Exile

For my own part:

If my answer is supplemental or complementary to a good answer, I will signpost that good answer with “Vote #1 [User Who Posted A Better Answer]

If you are nasty to me in comments, I *usually* won’t take the bait, I’ll just ignore you. Usually.

15 months in, no BNBR warnings. Hope to keep it that way.

If I choose to answer in an adult topic, I’ll at least consider doing so anonymously, out of concern about giving unnecessary offence to my followers. Otherwise, God no. I am who I am, and if you don’t like me as a package, don’t follow me.

I will swear in posts as rhetorically appropriate. I do not consider that a BNBR violation.

I may write longwinded, ranty, stream-of-consciousness humorous answers from time to time. But I still strive to put an underlying serious argument in there, that addresses the question. Even if it’s a survey question.

I’m OK with putting up comments in languages other than English, but only as banter with someone I know.

If I like you enough, I will make up a nickname for you. My Opɯdʒɯlɯklɑr In Exile blog lists them periodically.

I still view reporting with distaste, because of my annoyances with Quora Moderation; but I no longer refuse to report. I used to: (I will not hit your Report button by Nick Nicholas on The Insurgency)

I use the downvote sparingly. The contribution has to be blatantly stupid and/or irrelevant, and I penalise irrelevant much more than stupid.
A$A$A
If you are rude to me I will block and mute you.

If you irritate me, I might block and mute you, but I might undo it later on. This undoing has happened exactly two times. So, I wouldn’t risk it if you care about me blocking and muting you. This is because I will probably forget I blocked and muted you, so even if I was just being a grumpy pants and you didn’t deserve to be blocked and muted…oops sorry.

If you refuse to know when to stop in comments, especially when I tell you to stop, or if you sealion me, blocked and muted. What is sealioning?

If you mansplain to me, I will call you out on it and I will probably block and mute you. But not always. Sometimes I will call you out and give you a chance to realize that you were being patronizing. But most of the time when I do this, the person (normally male, hence mansplaining) gets all shocked and hurt and obnoxious and whatever their poor sensitive souls. So, blocked and muted. Either way, I am tired of this behavior.

If you are sexist, homophobic, swear at me, etc, I will block you, mute you and report you.

If you come on one of my legal answers and insist on sharing patently incorrect information which will confuse people, I may warn you, I may not. If I warn you and you listen, cool. If I warn you and you don’t listen, blocked and muted. I don’t want people giving bad legal information on my answers.

If you answer a legal question and it is patently incorrect information which could cause people to do something which will get them in trouble, I will report you for being factually incorrect. I may or may not block and mute you.

Active blocking is my friend. If I happen to see you violate BNBR, I will block and mute you, because I figure you did it to someone else, you’ll do it to me.

If I see you are part of a spam circle, especially if you are helping a law firm or are a law firm, I will report you so fast you won’t believe it.

In short, if you screw with me, I will block and mute you. Why? Because I don’t see why I should have to deal with your nonsense, that’s why. I will only report you if you violate BNBR though. And alas, there is a lot of violating BNBR.
A$A$A
These are my usual rules:

I will not answer a question, if a suitable answer is present - unless I have something particularly interesting to add.

Sub-rule: If I do do this do not attack other writers. Criticising their work in the comments is OK - but I don’t like passive-aggressive “Well, ignoring what these other morons have written….” answers

I only answer fact-based answers when I actually have some vague knowledge. You won’t hear any “well this isn’t my area but…” from me.

Thank everyone who suggests edits - even if I don’t accept them (a lot of suggested edits are British/American conflicts - but they mean well)

I do my best to reply to all comments which warrant such a reply - though sometimes the notification system means I don’t get to do this as often as I would like.

I will not engage with people outside of Quora. I have had about 30 people add me on facebook - including one guy who sends me message requests every few days. Facebook is my private account - it is for actual friends!

Similarly - if you try and contact my girlfriend, I will go fucking nuclear on you. If you have a problem with me, come and talk to me. Making threats to her is the lowest form of scumbaggery.

On that note, I try to keep my language fairly clean - though I will swear when appropriate/funny.

I very rarely block people. The only people I block are those whom I am also reporting. I will however delete comments when they annoy me (which is not the same as disagreeing with me!)

I have a zero tolerance policy for:

Racism/xenophobia

Sexism

Homophobia

Any other form of discrimination

I have a very short leash when it comes to:

Pseudoscience

That annoying “wavy dark matter” guy

Personal attacks

If you do any of those, you will likely get your comment deleted - or a slightly holier-than-thou reply. If you do any of the zero-tolerance things, you can bet your ass you’re getting reported.

I do my utmost to stay inside the realm of BNBR (though I have been reprimanded a few times…mainly in response to some people on the previous list!)

And probably my most important rule:

I have been accused of being arrogant several times - I don’t mean to be, and I’m sure that 90% of this is because of my dry British sarcasm not coming across in text form - but if someone accuses me of it, I will do my utmost to either edit the answer - or apologise profusely.

I’m sure I’ve violated some of them at some point - but then again - rules are more like guidelines, eh?
A$A$A
I am willing to delete and downvote comments that does not add to the answer at all. This goes for ad hominem attacks, appeal to probability, broken window fallacy, various conflations and other fallacious remarks.

I share aspects of my personal life on Quora but only when it pertains to my personal interests and limitations. This goes for my experiences with social discrimination, history, politics and my life with Autism Spectrum Disorder. I also have a thing for sharing contemporary South African lifestyle and culture given the ignorance the world still has of my country.

I rarely block and mute people. I am a very patient person and I tend to find the commentary and actions of others to be a learning experience. However, I have no tolerance for racism, sexism, misogyny, homophobia and xenophobia along with victim-shaming and blaming.

I am bad with A2A’s. And when I mean bad, I mean waiting for up to a week to get to answering to them or not answering them at all. I still have issues with memory and cognition, which affects my grammar and comprehension so my confidence takes a dip here. This is getting better but many problems still remain.

I value insight and perspective more than perceived accuracy. My Autistic brain being the sucker for details means that I have a penchant for the lesser-known stories and finer details. This is where my precocity and hyperlexia stems from.

I appreciate edits. When someone comes in to edit my answers, I tend to feel grateful more than irritated because of my problems with grammar. People believe me to be highly-literate but I highly doubt this due to memory problems and poor writing experience and besides, who can be right all the time?

I prefer to answer questions I see in my newsfeed. All the good questions seem to pop up there rather than the question box that is provided. I am spontaneous hence my habit.

I am aware of the differences between British and American speech. I tend to employ both conventions so expect some ambiguity to pop up in my language use. My country also has its own standard dialect of English so if you encounter strange words, this will be the reason. Any edits will be scrutinized along these lines especially.

This should cover it.

Thanks for A2A Irene Avet. Much appreciated.
A$A$A
Here are few things I promised myself, I will never do on Quora.

Read an answer just based on the high number of upvotes.

Write a negative comment.

Follow an individual based on the number of followers.

Give a damm if any of my answer don't get an upvote.

Finally, treat Quora like Facebook. The answers are constructed in such a way to impress readers. Upvotes are the “like”, and Followers are number of “friends / followers”.

Adding, take things personally.
A$A$A
I just added item #8, and reposted this answer…

Thanks for the oppt’y to answer your question, Irene!

I view myself as a subject matter expert in certain topics, and endeavor to avoid questions outside of those areas.

Since Quora is an uncompensated writer forum, but, a significant portion of my livelihood is earned from professional writing, and I obviously enjoy writing (and other communication genres I participate in, such as professional speaking, teaching college, mentoring programs, etc), I see myself as providing a pro bono service to readers with a genuine interest in gaining knowledge. I try to focus on questions that seem to be looking for a professional response.

When it comes to writing on Quora, I try very hard to shy away from purely op-ed pieces, or fluff. If I decide to answer a question that is not really looking for hard information, I try to make it obvious to the reader that my answer is not something they want to quote as gospel. In a nutshell: If you want to be taken seriously, and you are going to “talk-the-talk, then you gotta be able to walk-the-walk.”

Let’s face it, if you like reading, writing and learning, your time spent on Quora can be very addicting! I learned earlier this year that it’s easy to spend hours & hours on here…this is fine, if you don’t need to be earning a living, raising a family, or have other pursuits. Quora-writing is like smoking crack…the more you write, the more questions people ask, and the more you write, you get even more questions coming your way, and…Everything should be done in moderation. One of the undesired outcomes of the millennial information access explosion is once you tap into the knowledge font, it is easy to become a victim of “input overload.” Phone calls, e-mails, text messages, social media, and so on. It is akin to attending a heavy metal rock concert, and you decided to tryout the whirling “spectator pit” in front of the stage. For a novice, this choice is WRONG! I am 6′3″ & 250 lbs, and have seen someone my size get ejected out of the pit at mach one…usually into a wall, or get trampled by somebody. Our information explosion is the same. A certain teenager got into blogging back in 2012–13, and in light-speed, her blog was over a million followers overnight. She completely lost control over her life, and eventually quit the whole thing without warning. What used to be what Americans called “free speech,” became a case of being forced to communicate, and if you don’t, you quickly become the impolite word for someone’s posterior. You must stay in-control of when, where, what, why, who & how you communicate.

For the most part, I’ve developed my own research abilities on-line, and other mediums, such that, if I need/want to know something, I generally find my own answers, rather than using Quora as a research tool. Anyone who does professional research as part of their livelihood, knows that anything you use in your work-product must be verifiable by a third-party. There are certain writers on Quora who I have come to both trust & respect their professionalism, honesty, and career backgrounds, and would not hesitate to quote them anytime; they include such august SMEs as: Eric Johnson, Tom Farrier, Amir Davis, C.E. Scaros, Lynn Taylor, Doug Frazen, and a dozen or so others (sorry, no slight to others I haven’t listed by name…you are valued professionals, too!). Writers such as these, are so reliable that I am willing to stake my own professional reputation on what they say.

One of the main reasons I only participate on Quora, and avoid other online forums is, I dislike “writer-bashing” between contributors. I appreciate the fact that Quora takes a dim view of writers trashing other writers. I will express an infrequent opinion here…Quora is in-business as a for-profit company, regardless if they were/are a start-up beholden to venture capitalists, or the owners personal funds are involved. People in-business to make money, like to make money. The type of investors (maybe shareholders some day) attracted to a product like Quora (it IS a product…period), are not the same people who read, write or invest in the National Inquirer. Readership is important to Quora. But, the writers are just as important because Quora’s business model is based on making money on the intellectual property posted by, what is essentially, an unpaid writing staff. So, in that regard, I have a high degree of respect for Quora’s zealous guardianship of the content displayed on their website.

I also think it is important to acknowledge the person asking the question, by name, in a posted answer. Personalizing things is important, where possible. Secondly, I will often refer to other writers of a particular question, in general, or by name, in my answers. It is important to recognize that you do not see yourself as a know-it-all, and are not afraid of pointing-out other SMEs who are at least as knowledgeable, if not more so, than you.

There is a strong content on Quora regarding military weapon systems, tactics, and operations. I feel certain that most of the frequent writers in this genre (including me) have either held a U.S. Government security clearance, or still do. That said, I feel very strongly that writers need to exercise care in answering military-related questions. Anyone would be kidding themselves if they thought intelligence and/or counter-intelligence officers did not monitor what is written here. Previously, I took exception to a couple of questions, and stated so, declining to answer them due to what I felt was surfing a little close to the edge of what should or should not be said. A moderator did not care for my reply, and that’s o.k. Nowadays, if I think a question should not be asked/answered, I keep my feelings to myself, and either skip the question, or formally pass on it. Most of the time I don’t acknowledge it one way, or the other. This is my self-imposed “rule.”

This may have been far more than you want to know…but, you asked. I really like Quora, and hope its basic format & business philosophy remains unchanged.

Ciao!
A$A$A
A2A:

I'm not particularly a “rule” person (I often find myself the walking exception)), but I do have a few:

I rarely read commentary to my responses or comments, and almost never respond. There are way too many trolls on here for that kind of nonsense, and I'd never be able to write an honest, if controversial, opinion. And then what would be the point of being on here?

Corollary to 1. - I will explain something further if there is confusion over a point I've made. I often fail to do this (see 1.) unless it is pointed out to me (though sometimes I see it and will remark).

I cannot be baited. Don't try. (There’s a very funny cartoon of a guy who won’t get off the computer for days because “someone on the internet is wrong!” I have friends like this, and it's a very SMH sort of thing for me.)

I actively do not care about the opinions of people I don't know.

Contra to 4, I am an upvote whore. I’m an enigma, I know. :)

I use Quora for information, not affection. I mention this because it seems people can get this confused…

I flag inappropriate content, especially if it's mean spirited. It spoils the fun.

I try hard not to be mean-spirited in any response. Even to suspected trolls or ego-stroke questioners (of which there are far too many). There’s always something underlying the annoying behavior, so rather than pile on, I try to address the underlying need. No one needs more hate.

If a questioner is getting a lot of hate, I try to insert something helpful and kind. See 8.

I won’t answer questions if they’ve been answered before, generally better than I could.

I won't answer questions that simply require a google search.

I do not correct grammar. Many people write in English, and it is clearly not their first language. I am extremely sympathetic to people operating in foreign languages, and do not want to discourage anyone from writing simply because they are concerned about grammar or appearance. If it’s intelligible, I’ll roll with it.

I recommend answers for publication regularly - the publication group seems to appreciate it.

I feel no compulsion to write on Quora for the sake of writing or mental quota filling. Sometimes, I just spend time reading answers, and that’s ok.

My facts are always true and can be proven, or I don't write them. It’s my thang.

I freely cite responses I like to others and link, and mention writers I find particularly follow-worthy. Trying to do my part to spread reputations and influence beyond the Quora bubble.

I don't respond to trolls or BNBR violators. I just block them. Highly recommend.

I have no problem saying I was wrong. Unless you're getting paid or graded, being right is overrated.

All of the above may be wrong.

Kind regards,

Alexandra

Sent from my iPhone - please pardon errors.
A$A$A
More than two sentences is a general rule I like to have. If I want to answer something, summing it up in two to three sentences is a waste. I know of several top writers who have up to tens of thousands of answers, but are half-assing every one with an asinine statement. What bothers me even more is when people upvote this nonsense.

No names even though no one I know in real life knows I write on Quora. I live in a fairly small city and the chances of me seeing an ex-girlfirend, or a old high school classmate is pretty high. I hate awkward situations, and if I can avoid, I will at all cost.

I don’t block but only if you start to insult my character I will. I had a guy a few months ago accuse me of being racist towards white people. At first, I didn’t think much of it. Furthermore, he went on to suggest attending Howard University was a bad idea. Blocked.

I don’t use anonymous because I have nothing to hide. Well I do have a few skeletons in my closet I would like to share, but I can’t. I can’t share them because I no longer have the anonymous feature because of BNBR.

No more than 500 words because anything more can become hard on the brain. I’m no journalist, blogger, or English professor. If I write a story, I want to keep you in the loop, keep it concise, and not bore you with unnecessary details.
A$A$A
Answering

I try not to be repetitive— if someone else has said it, I don’t answer unless I have something specific to add. I’m not going to write useless answers just for the views.

If I can’t answer and fully substantiate every word I’m saying, I’m not going to answer. You can probably find a handful of answers where I haven’t exactly figured out what I’m trying to say but I answer anyway, and you can see how that turned out. It’s not good.

Comments

I delete any and all antagonistic comments. I love disagreement and discussion, but I have no patience for people who just want to cause trouble.

BNBR violations will be reported and their writers, blocked.

Blocking

I do active-block, but I try to keep it to a minimum. I generally follow the rule that if someone does something worthy of reporting, then I will block them. I’m less harsh with active-blocking than I am with blocking those I’ve interacted with.

I primarily block for BNBR violations, spamming, and extremely condescending content. I generally look through someone’s edit log before blocking them, to confirm if their behavior is a pattern or if it’s a one-off thing. Sometimes people get passionate and respond in a way that’s unintentionally hostile; if it’s reasonably mild, I might leave them alone and just delete the comment. If it’s a trend, they get a block. That’s how I maintain my sanity on Quora and keep from getting edit-blocked or BNBR warnings.

I will never block you just because you disagree with me. I’m perfectly happy to disagree— just be polite about it. I want my views to be challenged. I want to learn. But I don’t want to be spoken to like I’m an idiot.

That’s generally how I use Quora. Block often but not excessively, answer when I know and read up when I don’t.

So far, I haven’t been banned or blocked. I’d say it’s going pretty well.
A$A$A
I don’t say anything that I would be horrified if my mother read it. ….or anyone else I know in real life. I mean, just because I don’t know anyone in real life who reads Quora, it doesn’t mean they never will. This applies to not hurting others, as well as not sharing too much personal information about myself. I use my real name, after all.

Be amusing, if I can. Most of what I answer is subjective rather than black-and-white. I am not teaching someone how to do something, I am merely offering advice or opinion. I answer because it amuses me to answer. It might as well amuse the reader.

I try …. TRY ….. to not engage in strawman fallacies and loaded questions. I might type out an answer, but I’ll delete it rather than post it.

I also TRY hard to limit myself to no more than 2 hours on Quora per day. Okay, four hours. …or maybe 6, if I promise to not get on the internet for the next 24 hours. Jeez I waste a lot of time amusing myself here!
A$A$A
I have a few guidelines:

Anything about sex, I won’t answer. I have neither the experience nor the desire to be able to answer that.

The first 2–3 times I see an answer to the same question, it’s fine. It gets annoying after awhile.

If I get requested to answer, and I can answer I will answer it.

If I can’t answer it, I will pass.

Most of my answers are long. I pride myself on putting 100% effort into every question I answer.

I downvote stupid questions. For example, I just saw a question saying “how big are 12 year-old penises?” How the hell are we supposed to answer that?! You have to be 13 to be on Quora anyways, so you either are breaking the rules to answer it, or you are a creep with a pre-teen penis fetish.

The more followers I get in a day, the more motivated I feel. When I look at things like that, I go “Ok, today was a good day” or “Ok, I suck as a writer”.

These are a few of my guidelines.
A$A$A
No arguments. I write my answer. If you don't like my answer, fine! But I am not going to argue what I believe.

I immediately report and block foolishness.

I stay out of drama.

I limit my interactions to BNBR.

I keep Quora out of my real life.

I only tell the truth.

I don't consider anyone on Quora to be my best friend.

I won't meet anyone from Quora. Unless I am invited to be TW and go to Meetup.

I don't want a Quora girlfriend. There are plenty of real women in the ATL.

If I upvote, that doesn't mean I always agree. I sometimes upvote to show I read the comment. Other times, I might not agree with the entire comment, but I still find it valid.
A$A$A
I have a few, just for me.

No anonymous answer although Quora makes it possible, but if I have to go anonymous it means that I have still something to deal with, or that other might get in trouble because of my answer.

Be honest. I answer truthfully, or not at all.

No acknowledgement for A2A. That might seem harh but it isn’t. I decide whether to answer or not. And in a lot of cases that means I won’t thank someone for asking me to answer a question. The person who requested me to answer knows it, I know it, that is enough for me.

Report insincere, purposefully painful content, racist and/or sexist and/or discriminatory content.

Undo or report vandalism.

That sums it up.
A$A$A
Don’t write anything over 250 words. This is just because I don’t like going into the details, and when I write anything more than 250, I get a bit bored.

Be nice ’n respectful. It’s in the Quora rules- I don't exactly have a choice.

Don’t be too condescending. It might be just me, but I find that many of the answers on Quora are way too patronizing/condescending. Especially about religion.

Never get insulted. Hate in the comment section is fairly prevalent. I try not to take it personally.

Originality. Don’t post an answer that has been mentioned before- unless… I have something else to add on-top of what has already been said.

Upvote thanking. Don’t say “thanks for the upvotes!” It makes it feel like Quora is just another popularity contest (even though it kinda is).

Dating advice. I try not to answer anything about relationships and dating. I don’t exactly have enough experience to accurately answer questions (just a fancy way of saying that I haven’t had a girlfriend).

I think this should be about 250 words- haven’t counted, but I’m a decent guesser. But that pretty much sums up my Quora protocol.
A$A$A
Write what you know

Be Nice

Be Respectful

Be Funny (or try, anyway)

Give Details

Respond to many (but not all) comments

Thank people for their comments / edits / answers

No “too personal” information

Report abuse

Everyone Dies™ (when appropriate)
A$A$A
What are your personal rules and limitations on quora?

Just because you can answer something doesn't mean you should I get a lot of A2As, and some of them I pass on, despite being able to answer, because I don't feel like my answer would be interesting (either to me or the reader), because it's about something that I'm not interested in sharing (usually trauma related), because it's a bnbr bait (usually to do with feminism), or I just simply cannot be bothered.

Just block them I sometimes write about controversial topics. This, and even non controversial topics, gets a lot of rude, hateful, or otherwise annoying comments. I'm through trying to reason or argue. I block people all the time now. “Just because you don't agree with their opinion?” No, because their comment made me want to violate the bnbr.

Give as you get, or at least give it a go views and upvotes are things you can give out for free. I don't read as many entries as I get views, but I do try to still pass on the good view and upvote-karma.

Don't back down just because people won't agree when I write some of my answers, I know people won't like them. But that doesn't make them less true or valuable. Being disagreed with isn't the end of the world, and worst come to worst, I can just turn off the comments.

Keep an open mind this one is hard for me. I get comments on my posts, especially those containing selfies, that are cringy at best, and sometimes even offensive or vulgar. I know that because I'm a feminist, I'm more likely to take offence, where none was meant, but I try to keep an open mind… at least usually.
A$A$A
“What are your personal rules and limitations on Quora?”

These are minimum rules everyone should follow.

Obey BNBR to the best of my ability

Provide citations for important issues

Check all new followers’ profiles

Report harassment and all other BNBR violations

Don't presume to answer questions I have little knowledge of

Mute and block those who insist on being rude, hostile, and/or insulting

Ignore most anonymous comments, ask them to use their name to continue

If you troll, I will report you- and l will be the judge of that.

If an answer or comment is dismissive, I downvote it

I take a dim view of braggarts. If you always post the same bio and it looks like a resumè, I may downvote your answer.

I never go anonymous. If a question is too embarrassing or risky, I don't answer

If you can't be polite, be ready to be ignored, blocked, or reported.

EDIT: Oh yeah, I forgot- never, ever post anything when I'm high.
A$A$A
Most people like to pretend there are rules; I don't.

Just the other day I posted an answer that consisted of three assertions, one of which was supported in the answer itself through photos, one of which was a matter of fact, and one of which was an inference/judgment on those facts and the evidence in the pictures.

Someone left a comment disagreeing (through one run-on tryina disguise itself as a paragraph) with every point individually; they disagreed that evidence shown in the pictures existed, then they disagreed that the facts stated were so, and then they went one further and said that even if the inference I had made was so, which they said it could not possibly have been, that even then it would have been “bad” if things were the way I said they were, and anyways they liked the subject matter so I must be wrong, all this without a single citation, and all this on an answer I took the time to visually, physically evince.

This kinda illustrates to me that you can say something that's objectively true and someone will still find a way to talk at you about themselves under the guise of talking about it rather than listen, or read, or do anything that might actually benefit them or you, because thinking is work and that's hard, and so…

I treat people with the respect with which they treat me.

Michaelis Maus' answer to What do you think of all the troll questions that seem to ask you the most absurd and insulting things?

Otherwise I hold myself to my own standards, because all throughout my life I've found those of others to be selectively enforced and thus, worthless, and worse still, detrimental.

Heck, when I first started writing here, Quora told me they didn't think my name was real, and I told them I didn't think they knew what real was, and they apologized to me for wasting my time.

So, rules?

I write here like I'm writing a paper; I write papers like I could die tomorrow and the sentence would have to stand on its own; I talk this way as well, which is why I'm a joy to be around even though the shit I say is existentially jarring.

I don't waste my time and I don't waste your time; I answer as wholly and concisely as possible for me even though I could toss word salad forever; I answer the question, nothing more or less, which also gets me into trouble with people who can't entertain an idea they don't believe or comprehend that other people might.

My business cards read “Devil's Advocate,” and so does my profile bio, and that's what I do for a living; I love it so much that I could do it for free and I get paid to do it because 'Murica, and what that means here is that I owe it to people to show them what they're actually saying. I don't get too attached to any one idea because they don't mean anything to me, and they mean a million things to other people, and I think the best way to help people understand what others are hearing is to agree with them until they don't agree with me. To show them that they don't actually believe what they say. To break the shackles of their myopia… here's an example: someone says something like, “why doesn't humanity overthrow the corporations?” And I'll say something like “yeah, fuck Quora!” And then they'll say “whoa, I didn't mean that…” And I'll say “I know you didn't. Now you know, too.” And then someone else will say “fuck Quora? Fuck you, you don't know, idiot.” And then I'll say “look at the answer to this question I wrote before I met you (link to this answer); enjoy the rest of your life!”

Stick with ideas. Even when incidentally dealing with people and events, I stick with concepts and ideas and philosophies. Everything else is just…trivia.

If every opinion is the same, it's the wrong one.
A$A$A
I only answer a question if I know an answer, and can add something relevant to the conversation. I read other answers. If someone else has said what I’m basically saying, I pass on giving an answer.

I try to be respectful of the question and questioner. My answers may be slightly sarcastic, but I assume good intentions of the person who asked. —JB
A$A$A
Try to be witty as possible.

Although I fail badly, I still try to follow it.

Never underestimate the power of bold , italic and bold-italic fonts.

I know many people here on Quora who, while reading prefer to read just the special fonts.

Never block people, for whatsoever reason(subject to change).

Unless I am quite a famous here on Quora, 8 shall never block anyone jut because they're annoying or what.

In real life I am pain in ass to all the people around me, so I just imagine myself in their place.

Never text someone famous, just for appreciation.

Althoigh for some people, this might sound rude. But I mean it. Because, you know there is a thing common in all of us on Quora(most of us). Human behavior.

So, just imagine yourself in place of them, reading appreciations all day long. :|

Instead upvote the answer, or open theri profile and read all the answer, upvote them and share them. A better idea to respect them.

Never comment on a funny answer “HAHAHA” or on a sarcastic answer “Ouch that hurts” or things like that.

Not going to provide a description, for obvious reasons.

Never do that Omg my first 2k views or OMG my first 1k upvotes because of obvious reasons.

Never ever add a line, “P.S.: Sorry for the bad English.” Because, I am a Indian. My first tongue is Hindi, and I. Quite profound in it. English, is a language I learned for communication later with ~Non-Indian~ lads.

Never miss a comment on any of my answer. Either reply them, or upvote them.

Future : Never ever delay in replying PMs and mails. (I did replied to a few, mails).

That'd be all. :)
A$A$A
Me?

I don’t have any, or don’t have many, really, regarding what YOU do or say. I have a few restrictions on what I do or say:

I won’t answer questions which are abysmally stupid or illiterate.

I will honestly answer questions even when my honest opinion is that you are trolling. And I’ll call you out. This assumes that the question does not fall under #1, above.

I will try not to say, “fuck,” “shit” or “asshole” or similar. Unless, of course as a literary device or a quote. Or unless I am really “pissed.”

I don’t block anyone. Ever.

I will absolutely report any question or answer which appears as a credible threat or clear abuse.

This is pretty much the way I am in everyday life.

Hope that helps.
A$A$A
Write on topics you know and not just for the sake of writing.

Do not bother much about upvotes. If your answer is good, upvotes automatically come your way.

Be respectful, avoid angry conversations with people who disagree with you.

Appreciate well written answers in comment section.

Do not play the follow/ unfollow game.

Do not give out too much personal information about yourself.

Ignore rude and nasty comments . Don't drain your energy on such things.
A$A$A
A lot of the rules I would set for myself are basically out of necessity, anything to facilitate my usage of Quora and make it more enjoyable for myself and others. So obvious ones include blocking someone that is being mean to you, trying not to piss off Big Brother Quora, reporting any behavior that has no place in Quora/civilised society, and the likes. Outside that, what I tend to do this:

If I do not have a proper answer, I will not post an answer. I don’t want to be polluting this website with my half-assed attempts at trying to get upvotes.

If I feel like I could answer a question but given more time and more experiences, I will save it to “Answer Later”.

It does not take much for me to hit the “Follow” button. And I will follow someone regardless of how popular they are if I like what they write. In fact, my strategy is to follow as many people as possible, and unfollow if I find that they do not write well or they do not write on topics that I like.

I don’t take the lack of recognition for my answers personally. The majority of my answers will have at most one upvote (if any at all) and that is not because no one likes my content or my writing is not good enough. It just means that it has not reached enough people. I tend to write answers to questions that have not reached many people, so that is partly to blame.

If you take the time to comment on my answer with more than just “Awesome!” or “I disagree”, I will most likely respond. If you give me feedback, I will take it and thank you. If you ask for clarification, I will clarify and thank you for bringing it up.

If an answer on Quora stands out to the rest of the answers to the same question and gives me exactly what I want, I will hit the “Thank” button.

Similarly, if I ask a question and I receive an answer that is somewhat useful, I will thank you for taking the time to answer it.

Not going to lie, I am ruthless with the *downvote* button. I can end up scrolling through the list of answers on a specific question, and if I find anything that does not answer the question, looks like it has been written with no thought at all, has awful spelling and grammar to the point that it is unreadable, I won’t think twice about getting it collapsed.

On a different note, I have started getting those messages such as “Hi…I would like to get acquainted with you…here’s my email…” now. Oh, the burden of fame! I’m kidding. But just to be clear, I will not respond to those messages! If you want to message, I’d like to have known you a little before then, or at least I’d like it if you messaged me with something useful in mind.

This list was bigger than I expected. Didn’t know I had this many rules!
A$A$A
Never answer a question unless I have something original to say or a new perspective on an issue.

With the exception of opinion questions, never answer a question I don’t know the answer to from either knowledge or experience. Always be honest with my answers.

Be kind whenever possible. Ignore if I can’t be kind unless it seems like a hard truth might be more beneficial to the asker.

If answering a question is neither helpful to someone nor fun to think about (as in the case of hypothetical scenarios), pass it. This would include nearly all political questions, for example.

If someone else has answered a question better than I could, acknowledge it with an upvote and pass the question. No need to waste everyone’s time by reiteration, especially when they usually said it better.

Upvote good answers. Thank all responses to my questions. Upvote comments as a means of thanking people for offering their opinions. Downvote facetious replies and denigrating remarks made to others.

As much as possible, try not to judge. I’m not very good at this one.
A$A$A
I don’t engage in arguments that would force me to break BNBR due to the lack of nice words I want to use in them. Especially not the same arguments I always hear and to which I replied a thousand times and still couldn’t find a meeting point with the other person.

Disabling comments on controversial answers - especially answers relating to politics in this sense. It is not me being unable to accept different opinions and I am more than willing to discuss something normally but most people just downright attack you providing absolutely no valid counter arguments and leaning to insulting instead of having a civil discussion. I want to prevent again of breaking the BNBR and making my experience here better so I’m disabling comments on answers like those. I have burned myself too many times.

Mocking and insulting comments will automatically be deleted - they have no value to the community and I don’t want them on my answers.

I will downvote and report insulting comments on other answers from people I follow and I will report any insulting question and answers. You can make a point without insulting anyone, you know.

I really do care about providing answers that are of good quality. If I get an A2A on something I’m not familiar enough with, I will always A2A someone else and pass the request.

I do not accept anonymous A2As because the majority of them are of really poor quality or downright insulting in many cases.

Agree to disagree - when I say this, I’m not going to continue discussing anything. If we can’t find a common ground, it is better to stop it and accept that we have opinions that are too different and just end it there.

Point 1 and 2 are related to my numerous BNBR warnings that I got just because I managed to catch the bait and start arguing. Enough is enough.
A$A$A
I don’t…

I don’t respond to questions that are written so poorly that I can’t understand it grammatically.

I don’t respond to questions that already have more than 40 responses (this question is just short of the threshold at this time).

I don’t respond to questions that I’ve already seen asked and answered before.

I do…

I do respond to comments if I feel the comment is sincere.

I do respond to private messages.

I do block other Quora users who repeatedly and intentionally make negative comments about my responses without offering a credible argument.

I do also block other Quora users who violate the BNBR policy in their comment to me. I have blocked many.
A$A$A
Pretty new here and not really a popularity contest winner. But maybe somebody wants to hear from one of the smaller lights out there how we experience and use Quora.

From the very onset of my voyage here I would limit my writing mostly to things I rather deeply care about. By now, I am aware that these are fringe areas of interest at best. But I rather write something I know about an issue I deeply care about than try to write about popular topics just to earn more views, followers and upvotes. I might just add some value to the day of some other human being.

I seldom, if ever will answer comments. Not for being rude, rather for time constraints. And I am a big believer to leave opinion stand as such. I might add mine, in an answer, that contradicts another author, but this is not meant as a correction but rather as an enrichment.

I seldom if ever downvote answers, only if I sense a deep or bitter disdain from the author against a believe I hold dear. I will downvote nasty questions that are out there just to put people down or tick them off. I am all for a good controversy, but that does not need nasty downputting, namecalling and bullying.

I never block anyone. I might not fully read an answer, if it heads down a certain direction, mostly those coming from atheists talking about religion. But I still breeze through some of it, just to sense the community. Maybe if someone would play on the man I might reconsider, but usually this is true: If you lash out, be prepared to get hit.

As of lately, I have concentrated even more on my “fields of expertise” and have my self earned some “most viewed” credentials. Feels sort of good and it certainly made my day the other day when seeing what they are. Deserts and First Kisses! As odd as this seems this is a perfect match. While having lived 21 years in a desert and travelled through the ones in North America extensively sort of makes me believe that I know about that topic, I am not a first kiss expert at all! But it seems that I write well about it!

When it comes to limitations, mine are my lack of interest about popular topics. I seldom, if ever write an answer about “trending” topics, and only occasionally about questions that come in at the top of the feed.

Then there is my tendency to go really long, maybe for not having used twitter ever. This bodes well with my adversity to regular social media such as Facebook. But I do not want my co-workers and folks from school to find me online and -God forbid- start something even remotely similar to flirting. That is what I like about Quora. I can give my still-alive inner nerd a workout. But if I were socially more approachable I might have way more exposure. But I like it like that.
A$A$A
Don't answer questions you know nothing about.

Research before making bold statements.

If you know something relevant, but can't remember if the source was reliable, or if you don't completely trust your memory, say so.

Accept and thank people for correction.

Stay away from politics.

Be funny if you can.

Rule #1 again.
A$A$A
Simple:

Don't violate the site's rules

Um…

I have few limitations on what I write about. There are the obvious ones, like protecting others' privacy and not lying, but otherwise I'll share just about anything…

…except who really killed JFK.
A$A$A
There’s just one that I can think of off the top of my head.

I will only follow 5 people.

Or less.

This is to maximize the attention I give to them. I see their upvoted stuff all over my feed. Not to mention it’s more special when I follow someone, if they care.

If you follow someone but don’t remember you followed them, what’s the point? If I like someone’s content but I’ve hit my following limit, I’ll either unfollow someone to add them, or just turn on notifications. Before following someone, I always turn on notifications from them.
A$A$A
What are your personal rules and limitations on Quora?

Don’t feed the trolls/idiots. By and large, I leave nonsense questions and loaded questions to folks with more patience than me. Conspiracy theories, superstition, sexism, racism, homophobia, etc, just aren’t worth the effort. I do make the occasional exception to smack down idiots, but mostly it’s either downvote/report or just ignore. When it comes to the internet in genreal, “don’t feed the trolls” is pretty much tattooed across my eyelids at this point.

Don’t click on personal issues/dating/relationship questions. The odd time I’ll see one of these answered by someone I follow (such as the inimitable Franklin Veaux), and be tempted to click on it. Quora’s recommender system being as aggressive as it is, I know from experience that would result in a deluge of such questions, which I definitely don’t want. Also based on occasional experience, I get the impression there’s a vast sea of relationship questions written by 13-year-olds-in-their-20’s on this site, and those same recommender algorithms keep that shite away from me as long as I don’t click on Pandora’s links.

Avoid politics, religion and social issues. Just not worth the effort, and it doesn’t take long for this stuff to veer into Don’t Feed the Trolls territory.

Report/downvote enthusiastically. Like they say, “downvoting low quality content something something”. I take that to heart and downvote poor-quality contributions liberally. I also make a point of tracking down and reporting spammers and trolls whenever the opportunity arises.

Don’t bother answering over-answered questions. Typically if a question already has many dozens of answers, I won’t bother adding to it (with the occasional exception).
A$A$A
Downvote posts with sales pitches at the end.

Downvote posts with “thank you” edits.

Like my response? Follow me for more tips, and check out my book “Attention needs met at last!”

Edit: 1,000 upvotes! You like me! You really, really like me!
A$A$A
Beyond the excellent list from McKayla Kennedy, I have these personal guidelines:

Every (good) question deserves an answer. Focus on unanswered questions first.

Merge before repeating myself.
A$A$A
Be honest

Don’t state facts that you have no evidence for

Say things that are controversial if you believe them to be true

Don’t worry about offending people if you believe your statements/opinions to be true and have evidence to back them up

Challenge people with textbook leftwing attitudes who simply repeat things they have heard on twitter
A$A$A
“Ape shall not kill ape” is the one rule I stick to on Quora.
A$A$A
Don’t act like a jerk, even if it would be sort of fun.

If my answer involves personal information that would make it seem as if I’m bragging, I reply anonymously.

Tell the truth, even when it is less believable than telling a lie.

Try to learn from this place, but after reading something that seems like new information spend some time checking it out independently since it’s possible that the person answering is wrong and yet well meaning, eloquent and convincing.

Avoid the growing temptation to spend too much time here, I really enjoy it.
A$A$A
If it makes me angry, I don't respond to it.

If it makes me laugh, I upvote it.

I mute anyone whose content makes my feed less interesting. (I used to block more, but it's sort of a blunt instrument. I will block users I see harassing someone, though, even if it's not me.)

I mute topics like crazy.

I merge quite a lot. Maybe more than the powers that be would like me to. There's way too much repetitive content.

If someone posts one spammy answer, I follow them back to their lair to see if they have others. They almost always do.

If I think, “I want to see less like this,” I hit Pass. If I think, “This is a blight that cheapens the entire site,” I hit Downvote.

If someone has already posted an answer substantially the same as my answer would be, I upvote their answer instead of posting my own.
A$A$A
If it’s an easy question I don’t answer. Somebody else will answer it better than me.

If it’s an hard question check the date it asked. If it’s new I don’t answer. Somebody else will answer it better than me. Answer only if it’s an old question and no one has answered.

I Go anonymous every time I can. I will never reveal my name. So if my friends ever see my answer they can’t make fun of me based on what I said in my answer or question.
A$A$A
A. I detest personal attacks.

So, I don’t call people stupid or ignorant.

Now, I will pick the shit out of what they believe in, but I won’t call people stupid for believing in those things.

The rest is pretty much BNBR
A$A$A
It may seem I have no filter but I do. I hold my tongue in many answers. I won’t tolerate bullshit or abuse in any forms and go after trolls with everything I have.

Outside of that I champion free opinion and debate within the realms of respect and fairness.
A$A$A
I try to be nice. I only talk about what I know or have experienced. If I don’t have anything to add beyond what others have already said I pass. I am happy to discuss an answer of mine or a comment, but I won’t escalate.
A$A$A
No too-personal-information.

And also, be honest.
A$A$A
I delete comments that I find offensive or annoying, also, I block that person.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
I had some accidents a few years ago. How can I find out what information insurance companies have about my accidents?
A$A$A
Order your clue report from  www.choicetrust.com

Insurance companies use this report along with your motor vehicle report to find claims. 

See a full explanation here: Databases collect your personal information and invasion of privacy
A$A$A
Whenever you apply for auto insurance the insurer will get your driving record from whatever state you live in. Therefor the insurers will have whatever the state has.  If an accident was not reported to anyone then it will not appear on your record. For example if you had a minor accident and no damage it's likely nobody called the police. Then the insurer will only know about it if you tell them. But if you don't tell them and they somehow find out later it would invalidate your policy due to omission on the application and they wouldn't have to pay any claims.
A$A$A
This is an excellent question and one which the information provided can be valuable.

In the US, vehicle accident data is collected by a company called LexisNexis. LexisNexis is a global provider of legal analytical data.

Insurance companies access accident data through LexisNexis by ordering what is called a Comprehensive Loss Underwriting Exchange (C.L.U.E.) report.

What does a C.L.U.E. Report Contain:

A C.L.U.E. Auto report provides a seven-year history of auto losses associated with an individual. The reports contain information that includes:

Address

Policy Number

Insurance Company

Amount Paid

Loss Date

Loss Type

How do you order your C.L.U.E. report?

Individuals can request a Comprehensive Loss Underwriting Exchange or C.L.U.E. report directly from LexisNexis. Instructions on how to order your report can be found here.

LexisNexis provides a sample report for you to see on their website here.

More information is provided on how to interpret or read the report here.

Why is a C.L.U.E. report important and what should I do with it?

Insurance companies use C.L.U.E. report data to develop car insurance rates. Incorrect information can work against you. For example, there may be information on your report that inappropriately assigns an accident to your household or an incorrect driver assignment.

How do I dispute information on a C.L.U.E. report?

LexisNexis provides a mechanism for correcting data on your report. Their website provides the following dispute information:

How to Dispute Information on a C.L.U.E report

C.L.U.E. report is a major factor in developing insurance rates.

Claim and accident information is one of the major factors in determining auto insurance rates. Making sure that data is accurate is an important way to obtaining your best insurance rate.

Best of luck with your C.L.U.E report!
A$A$A
Thanks for the A2A.

Ask your insurance agent.If they don’t know about the accidents it would be smart to inform them to avoid an unpleasant surprise later.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What consequence is there to submitting incorrect information on your tax forms?
A$A$A
A2A - fines and penalties and depending on the severity - prison.

Tax evasion in the United States - Wikipedia
A$A$A
This depends on several factors, some of which I’ll list:

Did the error get corrected by timely amendment?

Is the return under audit?

Has the limitations period expired?

Was the error a substantial amount?

Was the error with regard to entirely omitting an item of income?

Was the error due to incorrect information provided by a third party?

Was the error due to incorrect advice from a tax professional?

Was the error with regard to certain matters that the IRS has declared to be matters of interest to them?

Are there reasons for the IRS to consider this to be a fraudulent return?

As you can see, there’s a whole lot of factors. If you have this situation, see a qualified tax professional.
A$A$A
Penalties prosecutions Imprisonment
A$A$A
US System:

If the incorrect information is taking too many deductions, or deductions to which you are not entitled, expect that one day, the tax authority will figure it out and want the money you owe.

If the incorrect information is actually, “not reporting all of your income,” the consequences can range from moderate to prison time.
E$E$E

