Q$Q$Q
Identity: How do I find out if my Social Security Number has been compromised?
A$A$A
If you believe someone has stolen your identity, minimize the damage with these tips.

INTELIG.

VERISPY.

EVERIFY.

Tags: While Kyle Woodley was flying home from a conference in Florida, his credit card was busy buying things in North Carolina. The managing editor of Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips | InvestorPlace says he stepped off the plane to a flurry of messages from his bank asking him to confirm the charges. Fortunately, Woodley acted quickly, and within three weeks, the charges were wiped from his account.

“Someone had gotten the credit card number,” says Woodley, adding he was grateful it wasn’t his debit card number. “There’s a huge difference between your credit card being locked up and your bank account being wiped out.”

Technically, a single compromised account is considered credit card fraud and not identity theft, but it can be difficult to distinguish between the two at the start. Unauthorized credit card purchases could signal a one-time security breach, or they could indicate all your sensitive, personal information has been accessed. Either way, quick action is needed on your part.

“The first thing to do is move actively and move aggressively,” says Ted Peters, CEO of the investment firm Bluestone Financial Institutions Fund and former board member of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. “If someone has stolen your identity, they’re working as fast they can [to use your information] before you realize what’s happened.”

To minimize the potential damage, you should take the following nine steps as soon as you think your identity has been stolen.

1. Lockdown the problem account.

While there are several ways to learn about a compromised account, many people discover the problem just as Woodley did. They may be contacted by their bank about unusual charges, or they may see them on a statement.

In that case, the first step is to contact the financial institution, dispute the charges and ask to lock or close the account.

2. Sign up for a credit monitoring service, if offered.

Database breaches are another way many people learn they are potentially at risk for identity theft.

Last year, 1.1 billion records were compromised worldwide, according to Michael Bruemmer, vice president of consumer protection at Experian Consumer Services.

While not required by law, some companies offer complementary credit monitoring to victims of a breech. Bruemmer stresses that consumers must sign up for this service for it to be activated. “There is no such thing as automatically enrolling in fraud monitoring,” he says.

If you receive a notification alerting you to a data breach, read the letter carefully and take the appropriate steps to begin any free credit monitoring that may be offered.

3. Scan credit card and bank statements for other unauthorized charges.

Next, pull up your other accounts and scan old statements for other charges you don’t recognize. Don’t forget to review dormant or infrequently used accounts as well.

If you find unknown charges, call the financial institutions to alert them of the problem and request the account be locked or closed.

4. Review your credit reports for mystery accounts.

Your final stop when it comes to assessing whether you’re a victim of credit card fraud or identity theft is your credit report. Request copies from all three major reporting agencies, and look for any accounts you may not recognize.

By law, you’re entitled to at least one free credit report from each agency each year. While plenty of websites and creditors promise free credit reports, the official site to request them is Annual Credit Report.com - Home Page.

5. File a report with the Federal Trade Commission.

Once you have determined the extent of the problem, your next step may be to file a report with the Federal Trade Commission. Peters says this is only necessary if you think your identity has in fact been stolen. For credit card fraud, in which only a single account was compromised, an FTC report isn’t warranted.

To file a report, you can visit the government website - FTC Complaint Assistant or call 1-877-ID-THEFT (438-4338).

6. Contact your local police department.

In addition to filing a report with the federal government, you should also contact your local police department. This step isn’t so much about getting the police to investigate the crime as it is about creating a paper trail to show you were proactively addressing the problem. Although the police may not be able to do anything if your identity was stolen by criminals online and overseas, your report could help them track down someone who’s stealing information locally.

“It’s important to get on record so you’re protected against other claims,” Peters says. “For full legal protection, file FTC and local police reports.”

7. Place a fraud alert on your credit reports.

Now it’s time to follow up with the credit bureaus and request a fraud alert be placed on your account. Initially, a fraud alert will last 90 days, and it notifies any institution that pulls your credit report to the fact your identity may be compromised. The alert should prompt creditors to take an extra step to verify the identity of the person opening the account. If you can provide proof to the credit bureaus that you are a victim of identity theft, the fraud alert can be extended up to seven years (although you can remove it at any time by sending a written request).

“Don’t worry about there being some sort of stigma attached to a fraud alert,” Woodley says. “It happens to many people.”

For an added layer of protection, you can initiate a credit freeze which will completely cut off access to your credit report. That means the credit bureaus won’t share your report with anyone who requests it. While a credit freeze can be a good way to keep others from opening accounts in your name, it may also make it difficult for you to receive approval for loans or credit cards. A freeze is usually free to victims of identity theft, but others may have to pay a fee.

8. Open new credit card and financial accounts.

Identity theft victims should talk to their financial institutions to determine how best to avoid further damage. It most cases, that will involve closing and reopening accounts, even ones that haven’t been compromised. It can be a tedious process, but a necessary one to avoid a thief from gaining future control of your money.

9. Implement preventive measures going forward.

Although some cases of identity theft are unavoidable, there are ways to make yourself less likely to be a victim. These include the following:

Creating strong passwords and regularly changing them.

Shredding documents with personal information when disposing them.

Keeping personal information such as your address and phone number off social media sites, as well as any details you use for online security questions like your mother’s maiden name.

Not carrying your Social Security card in your wallet.

Bruemmer says clicking unknown links in emails is another way to make yourself an easy target for identity thieves. “The delete button is your best friend,” he says. “Once you click on a link, all sorts of bad things can happen.” Those bad things include inadvertently downloading malware or keylogger software that thieves use to mine your computer for personal information.

Most of these preventive measures are easy and straightforward. By being diligent andprotecting your personal information, you may find you never need these tips at all.

Tags: personal finance, identity theft, fraud, credit cards, credit, crime, FTC, banking

I hope I helped.

Good Luck.
A$A$A
Identity theft is one of the fastest growing crimes in America. A dishonest person who has your Social Security number can use it to get other personal information about you. Identity thieves can use your number and your good credit to apply for more credit in your name. Then, they use the credit cards and don’t pay the bills. You may not find out that someone is using your number until you’re turned down for credit, or you begin to get calls from unknown creditors demanding payment for items you never bought.

Someone illegally using your Social Security number and assuming your identity can cause a lot of problems. Your number is confidential

The Social Security Administration protects your Social Security number and keeps your records confidential. We don’t give your number to anyone, except when authorized by law. You should be careful about sharing your number, even when you’re asked for it. You should ask why your number is needed, how it’ll be used, and what will happen if you refuse. The answers to these questions can help you decide if you want to give out your Social Security number
A$A$A
Identity theft begins with the stealing of a social security number (SSN) and heads south from there, instilling fear into the heart of the victim. The thief leaves a trail of destruction that can only be repaired with identity restoration. The signs of a stolen SSN provide you the victim with a clear path to fixing the situation and returning your life to normalcy.

Signs Your SSN Has Been Compromised

Common signs that someone has stolen your SSN include various problems related to your financial accounts and passwords. If you cannot log in to an account or use your ATM card with the proper PIN, it's possible that your SSN has been compromised. A bill or statement may stop coming because a thief has changed the address or you may accidentally receive merchandise that you did not order.

Problems Related to Your Credit

Imagine trying to buy a car and being declined for an auto loan unexpectedly. Unexpected credit declines occur when your SSN has been stolen. You may also experience odd charges on your credit cards or creditors calling to collect on an unpaid bill. Or you may have your latte purchase at your favorite coffee shop declined. These are all bad signs that your SSN is in the hands of the wrong people.

Confusion With the IRS at Tax Time

Suppose you file your taxes on time and receive a notification from the Internal Revenue Service that someone with a different name has filed taxes with the same SSN with which you filed. You might be the victim of a scam where an identity thief is trying to receive your tax refund. Be careful of any communications from the IRS that may be illegitimate. Criminals may illegally pose as IRS officials in a letter or a phone call, attempting to dupe you.

How to Protect Yourself From Identity Theft

The most important step in protecting yourself from SSN theft is to only give out your SSN to legitimate entities such as government authorities, employers or financial institutions with which you are conducting business. Secure your Social Security card. Don't carry documents with your SSN listed. Shred rather than throw away mail. Maintain adequate computer security. Check your credit report at least annually. These steps will minimize the risk associated with SSN theft.
A$A$A
What should I do if I think someone is using my Social Security number?

If you think someone is using your number, there are several actions you can take. Note that we can only resolve Social Security number reporting problems on our own records.

Review your Social Security earnings record

Review the earnings posted to your record on your Social Security Statement. To get your online Statement, go to my Social Security and check your account. If you see any inconsistencies, contact the Social Security Administration. We consider identity theft one of our major challenges so we have joined in government-wide efforts to prevent Social Security number misuse.

Visit IdentityTheft.gov to report identity theft and get a recovery plan

IdentityTheft.gov guides you through each step of the recovery process. It’s a one-stop resource managed by the Federal Trade Commission, the nation’s consumer protection agency.

Contact the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for issues involving taxes

If you believe someone is using your Social Security number to work, get your tax refund, or other abuses involving a taxes, contact the IRS.

To contact the IRS:

Go to http://www.irs.gov/uac/Identity-...; or

Call 1-800-908-4490.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What is good credit card advice?
A$A$A
Sign up for credit card(s) selectively. They’d be happy to sign you up for all kinds of things, because they make money. You are the consumer of the credit card, and you should be aware of how they make money, and how you use credit cards. There are various comparison sites online. Pay attention to fees, particularly recurring ones. If you expect/intend to carry a balance, the interest rate will also be important. Otherwise, look for a no-fee credit card with good rewards or rebates.

Open credit cards sparingly, and aim to keep them a long time. In my adult life, I have had more library cards than credit cards. I don’t open cards willy-nilly or just to get the bonus or the store rebate. (I might make an exception for a home improvement store, if ever I take on a major home-improvement project.) At the moment, I have two credit cards, with big enough names to be widely accepted. (Edit to add: While minimalism is the approach I favor, others have done pretty well opening various accounts for travel bonuses, rewards, store discounts, or to take advantage of introductory offers. If one of these approaches benefits you and you are confident in your ability to read and apply the fine print for your purposes, more power to you.)

The part about keeping them a long time has to do with the way credit reporting works. One of the factors in determining your credit score (FICO score) is the longevity of your oldest account.

Share your credit card account(s) only with those you trust very much. Most contracts say you’re both on the hook for debts. Also be aware that some “affiliate” accounts may not result in the secondary card holder building credit. Read your contract or ask customer service to explain if you’d like to share but you’re not sure how it works.

Record your credit card numbers and contact information in a safe place. I use a password safe to generate and store unique passwords for different sites and accounts. It has a secure notes function, where I record the number and the codes. I also record contact information such as the customer service phone number, so I can easily contact them if the card is lost.

Pay off your balance in full, on time, each month. A credit card is an expensive way to borrow money. If you carry a balance (i.e. do not pay the full amount by the due date), you may pay 18% interest or more, and that can add up fast. This may require spending within your means and keeping track.

Pay off your balance immediately after a larger purchase. This isn’t strictly required, and it doesn’t directly cost you money to wait until you are billed and the bill is due. Your credit score will get a little boost from not having a large balance on your account when it is reported.

Pay at least your minimum, and ideally more. Your minimum payment is large enough to pay down the debt eventually, but it’s small enough that you’ll take forever and pay much, much more in interest. If you’re trying to get out from under a credit card debt, do whatever you can to pay more than this amount each month.

Be careful of spending too much money. Avoid spending money you don’t have, and also avoid spending more than you would if you were paying in cash. Credit cards tend to make spending money so easy it does not feel like spending money, or does not feel like spending as much money. (Hint: there are various apps which can help with keeping track.)

Use your credit card as consumer protection. Most credit cards will side with the consumer if there is a problem. If you got a bad product or service, and the merchant is not giving you a refund, the credit card company may be able to withhold payment, which gives you additional clout if you’re trying to get a problem resolved. Do try working with the merchant first. Many would rather have the opportunity to correct the problem or refund your money voluntarily.

Some credit cards also include things like insurance for traveling or car rental, and extended warranties. Read your card agreement or contact customer service to find out what yours offers.

Review your monthly statement. It’s good practice to see where your money is going. It’s also important to make sure you recognize all the transactions there. If you find something you are reasonably certain you didn’t do, or you find that something was charged more than once, report or dispute the bad transactions immediately. Credit card companies should work with you to correct errors or cancel and reissue a card that’s been stolen.

Understand the difference between a debit and a credit card. These days, many banks give you a card with credit card logo on it. It’s a debit card if it is linked to your checking or other bank account. Spending on a debit card feels like spending on a credit card, but works a lot more like writing a check. The money has to be in your account, and it’s removed immediately, or soon after the transaction. Spending on a true credit card results in a bill at the end of the month (or monthly billing cycle), which you then have a certain amount of time to pay before it begins accruing interest.

Inform them in advance of traveling, especially overseas. Many credit card companies have fraud-detection algorithms watching for unusual account activity. One of the surest ways to trigger such systems is for your card suddenly to turn up in Morocco-or-somewhere. If you’re not in Morocco when your card gets used there, a fraud alert is exactly what you want to happen. If you really are there when they call your home phone number about it, you’re unlikely to get the message. Put it on your packing list to contact your credit card company before you leave home, and spare yourself the headache.

Get yourself off credit offer mailing lists by visiting OptOutPrescreen.com. You can always find credit offers online, at your bank, etc., so there’s no reason to open up the security concern of having credit offers sitting in your mailbox all day while you’re out.

Get an annual credit report. In the U.S., you’re entitled to one free credit report per year. Get it, and look through it for errors. If you find anything wrong, correct it. These days, assorted free services also watch your credit activity and send you monthly updates along with estimated credit scores.

Consider placing a credit freeze on your account. If you do apply for credit, you’ll pay a modest fee to lift the freeze temporarily. The rest of the time, it will keep people from applying for credit in your name. (This is what most identity theft guard services do for you, but there is no reason you can’t do it for yourself.)

Understand how credit cards make money. There are multiple ways. They charge a transaction cost to the merchant, typically in the 2% range. You still pay $10 for a $10 item, but the merchant pays $0.20 [1] to the credit card company. There may also be a transaction minimum or per-transaction fee, which is why you’ll sometimes see a “minimum credit card purchase” sign in stores. You generally don’t see this fee as a customer because most merchant agreements forbid merchants from charging extra to credit card users.

Credit cards also make money on interest, if you carry a balance, and fines and fees if you are late with a payment. With a little foresight and planning, you should be able to avoid paying such fees.

(This is a U.S.-centric answer, written by an experienced and decently well-read amateur. Please also read the fine print for yourself.)

Footnotes

[1] Average Credit Card Processing Fees
A$A$A
How’s this?

Avoid credit card debt like the plague.

I understand the value of having a credit card for the sake of building up your credit history. I have a few credit cards myself, and I use them primarily for this purpose.

However, unless you’re planning on making the full monthly payment on your credit card, stop and think twice before taking out a cash advance or making any purchase of significance on your CC.

In general, I would advise you to be very, very scrupulous with your financial management decisions, particularly while you are young and you are still charting the course of your life. Taking on debt will affect your options, potentially for years to come, if you are not prudent.

Don’t look at the “available balance” portion of your CC statement and take it for granted. The CC companies are just waiting to eat you alive.

Hope this helps a bit.
A$A$A
Credit card is a great instrument when used wisely. You have to bear in mind several things:

Pay your cards in full - the best time to pay your credit card bill is between the statement date and the due date.

Avoid cosigning - if something goes wrong (borrower missed payment or paid too late), you credit score may get affected.

Avoid new card offers - know exactly what you need. Each new credit card shows up as a hard inquiry on your credit report.

Leverage credit cards for rewards - analyze credit cards to find the rewards that suit your needs best off all: hotels, airlines etc.

Avoid 0% financing

Get started early - it always takes some time to build credit.

Use your credit report to fix your problems

The Best Advice I Ever Got | Effectify
A$A$A
I would like to tell you my story/experience & consider it as a advise, IF you may like it. Or simply ignore it:)

I had a credit card from CITI when I was 20. I was offered the same at a Shoppers Stop location. And then I started using it. I had least idea on how to operate things on a credit card.

I paid min. amount due always. And 3–4 months later I saw the bill was huge. And then I called up the bank. Asked them about this. They said its the interest on NON Payment. I was stunned, shocked & starting yelling at them. I said I have paid min amount due. Why this Interest then? I never understood what the guy on other side explained me. But one thing was sure, I was screwed. It was 1, 18,000 approx amount. I paid that amount 3 days later in one go And closed the card.

I had least idea what the heck CIBIL was, at that time. 1 year later I went on to buy my first car at the age of 21. It was Maruti 800. I was ready to pay half the money from account and half from loan. My loan was rejected. Although I had good income coming in from Freelancing in dollars/pounds/euros from USA/UK/EUROPE for web development/SEO etc.

I met the bank manager. He told me I have a very bad CIBIL score. I explained him what happened. He told me there is nothing could be done. Only way it was possible, that, I had couple of FD’s in the bank. Those FD’s were then setup in lien to give me the loan. ( Actually by that time I had made up my mind to take the car on cash. But the bank manager was the first person who explained me how these things works. And when I told him I will take on cash, he advised me not to. And he explained me why this loan against FD will help me improve my CIBIL ).

Today I have 4 Unsecured credit card ( Normal Credit Card, which usually you get by normal process, and not as Credit Card against FD ).

The First priority post the cards usages for me is to pay the TOTAL AMOUNT DUE by or before the DUE DATE!

Second, I never let my cards go out of my eyes. That means my cards are safe with me & no body else can access them.

Third I have set a Limit on each card for expenses. And whenever I want to spend more or want to buy a stuff of bigger amount, I get this limit removed and post transaction done, I again get it back to my limit. That keeps my Credit Limit Secure in any unwanted situation, where my card has been skimmed or so.

Be VERY VERY Responsible towards credit cards. Credit Cards are always the awesome thing and I always recommend my friend and family to use Credit Cards on TOP of Debit Cards. BUT be very responsible with paying on time & keeping the card secure.
A$A$A
1-Use it at POS only as you may be charged a lot of interest on ATM.

2-Pay your due on time.

3-Do not share your card information.

4-Always check your statement and transaction history .

5-Do not overdue your limit/spending

6-Ensure it is EMV card and not magnetic
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
Should I hesitate to use Equifax tools to freeze my credit or check if I was affected by the data breach? What other tools should I use?
A$A$A
First - good for you for exercising healthy skepticism and distrust for all things Equifax. You needn’t use Equifax to determine if you were a part of the breach. Rather, just assume that you were. If you’re an adult with any type of credit in the U.S., then you’re likely affected as the result of Equifax’s careless cybersecurity practices.

Next, you should absolutely not hesitate to freeze your credit, if you have reason to believe that your Personally Identifiable Information (PII) has been compromised. Please do not believe the testimony of former CEO of Equifax, Richard Smith, when he claims that “locking” your credit is better than a credit freeze. A credit freeze is governed by state law(s) and shifts liability away from you. A credit lock is a product that benefits credit reporting agencies (CRAs) like Equifax, Experian and TransUnion, which was developed for CRAs to make additional money off of ordinary customers.

Also - don’t fall for the line that freezes are more “difficult” to set up and deactivate compared to “locks,” as this is simply not true. Both take about the same amount of time, as freezing/unfreezing your credit file is as straightforward as “locking” and far more effective. Sadly, I have many clients who can share with you how they found this out too late. The only problem for CRAs with a “freeze” is that—if too many customers opt for this (i.e., a security freeze)—then they have less data to sell or broker. This is one of the key reasons why Equifax’s ex CEO keeps pushing the lock over the freeze.

While freezes may cost up to $10 per file (depending on your state’s laws), you have the piece of mind of knowing that the freeze is legally recognized. On the other hand, a “lock” has questionable value. In fact, many clients of mine continue to experience identity theft/fraud even after opting for the “lock” with Equifax (also with the other CRAs).

To freeze your credit: Contact each of the nationwide credit reporting companies:

Experian — 1‑888‑397‑3742

TransUnion — 1-888-909-8872

Equifax — 1-800-349-9960

After each CRA receives your freeze request, you will get a confirmation letter containing a unique PIN (personal identification number) or password. Keep the PIN or password in a secure place, as you will need it if you choose to lift the freeze.

In addition to freezing your credit files, please understand that there are many ways that id thieves (who already have your PII) can wreak havoc on your lives. An identity thief can easily get a driver’s license , take out utilities, open up new bank accounts, etc. Sounds impossible? It’s not. I’ve talked to countless individuals in my data breach cases. With each story, I grow more passionate about strengthening our data privacy and consumer protection laws. There is much work for all of us, who are committed to improving the the state of digital privacy in this country. Europe, for example, is far ahead of us in this regard.

DISCLOSURE: Nothing contained in my answer should be construed as creating an attorney-client relationship. You should contact an attorney, if you seek counsel for your unique situation. I am an attorney for a national class of plaintiffs in a class action lawsuit against Equifax and have thus had the opportunity to speak to hundreds if not thousands of individuals who have experienced identity theft/fraud. For more about the difference between credit freezes and locks: http://wp.me/p6QDsn-2M Feel free to email me your questions at Equifax@Stritmatter.com.
A$A$A
Should I hesitate to use Equifax tools to freeze my credit or check if I was affected by the data breach? What other tools should I use?

Very first and quite important point: While the data has leaked from Equifax, it is in no way “tied” to Equifax for being used for your disadvantage. It’s not as if Equifax leaked your password on their site, and so long as you change your password quick before someone uses it to your disadvantage (well, it’s more complicated if you reuse passwords on multiple sites, but that’s terribly insecure so you don’t do that, right?) you’ll be just fine. So this is not something that can be addressed by dealing only with Equifax.

Next point is that, while I probably know a bit more than average about all this given an, ahem, unfortunate event a couple of years ago, I claim no insider knowledge of any sort.

OK, on to answering your question:

I break the problem of how to respond down to a number of steps with different tradeoffs:

Checking to see if Equifax thinks your data is involved. You need to supply your last name and last 6 digits of your SSN at https://www.equifaxsecurity2017.... (wait; you’re about to click that link and enter data? Why do you trust me? Confirm that somewhere else, like at a major newspaper!) Some people think that that site looks a little sketchy in general, but I’m having trouble thinking of any reasonable way of identifying yourself to a credit bureau without at least that much data. Of course, given the utterly deplorable tendency of increasing numbers of organizations to use the last 4 digits of your SSN as a password analog, the whole thing is….unfortunate. If you don’t want to do this, Equifax has promised to eventually send paper mail to everyone who they think is involved. On the whole I consider this fairly low downside and I’ve already done this for my family (answers: me and my wife “yes,” my son “no”). Of course, in our case we’ve been through so many breaches that the additional damage is probably minimal.

Decide if you want to sign up for the monitoring and associated services that Equifax is offering essentially everyone for free. (You don’t need to be on their list of “probably stolen” data to qualify.). If you go through the above website to check your status, you’re offered an “appointment” for a day on which you can signup for the service. There is some controversy on this one, as it’s been noted that the contract you agree to if you sign up was (still is?) such that you gave up the right to sue Equifax. Equifax has since publicly stated that this doesn’t apply to the breach, but such a statement by the PR folks on a random web site wouldn’t overrule clauses in a properly written contract, so I consider this one to still be up in the air. I will probably sign up, as the monitoring from previous breaches we’ve gone through has mostly expired by now, but will think about it a bit more between now and my appointments, about a week out from when I checked our status.

If you decide to avoid Equifax, you can always sign up for monitoring with one of their competitors. This will cost you money. Amusingly enough, Experian has already been in touch with me about how they’re there for me if something goes wrong due to, cough, cough, those other folks messing up.

No matter what else you do, you should probably start checking your credit reports on a regular basis unless you already do this. You are owed one free report per year from each of the three major bureaus, Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion. If you go through the official federal site: Annual Credit Report.com - Home Page, you can get them free. The bureaus are also happy to sell you all sorts of fancier versions directly. There are also shady sites out there, so since you don’t know me, go and confirm that URL somewhere reputable. Lots of people advocate cycling through the 3 bureaus, ordering one report every 4 months.

Consider freezing your credit. You have to do this individually at all 3 bureaus for it to be effective. It makes it very hard for someone to open accounts in your name. It makes it very hard for you to open accounts, confirm your existence on the Social Security Administration (SSA) website, and do any number of other things, unless you take the time to unfreeze your credit in advance every time. If you’re in one of the states where state law precludes the bureaus from charging you for temporary unfreezes and you aren’t shopping for credit all the time, it’s not too bad. Otherwise it can get expensive and generally be a PITA. I live in a state where charging is illegal, and I rarely need to unfreeze our files, so we’ve been doing this for several years now. However, someday I need to visit the SSA in person to unlock my access to my online account, since they got annoyed by not having access to my data at Experian to confirm my identity, and that’s pretty high on the PITA scale.

If a freeze sounds too daunting, consider a “fraud alert.” You can file that for 90-days with a single bureau, and it is required to alert the other two. If you want one for a longer period, you have to have filed a report about identity theft with some law enforcement agency, and provide a copy to the bureau you're dealing with. With this, any new creditor is required to get in touch with you to confirm new credit requests. The problem is that you need to renew this on a regular basis.

Personally, I’ve already checked on our status with Equifax, I’ll probably sign up for their monitoring, even if it rules out participating in any class action lawsuits (which would probably net me a pittance at best), and we’ve long since put security freezes on our accounts. But then we’ve been on this merry-go-round before; at one point the joke here was that we had free monitoring with every provider of credit monitoring services, courtesy of a slew of careless companies. Yes, and I’ll try to be better at checking credit reports on a more regular basis.
A$A$A
There are several sound reasons you should not voluntarily have anything to do with Equifax.

The customers of Target or Yahoo who had their personal information stolen were customers, they knew the risk they were taking.

There are millions of people who have never made an online credit card transactiion or voluntarily chosen to give Equifax any information. This would be the first experience in which people who took every possible precaution had their personal information stolen.

Then there is the matter of the delay in the announcement. Then it turns out this is the 3rd breach at Equifax in 1 year.

If this were Japan the Equifax CEO would have apologized and resigned
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
Is using credit cards or debit cards in India safe? If not, what are the problems?
A$A$A
It is very safe to use credit cards or debit cards in India provided you follow the basic safety measures. I actually think India is safer than most other countries for card users. 2 key safety measures in India that differentiate it from ROW are

We get a SMS from the bank for every transaction. So you know fraudulent activity immediately.

Online purchases require an OTP. So it is a 2 step authentication vs 1. This adds an additional layer of security.

Here are some basic safety measures to follow to ensure your credit cards/debit cards are not compromised

Do not write your PIN number anywhere

Do not disclose OTP to anyone on call or by message

Alert the bank immediately if you get a SMS for a transaction you did not make.

Alert the bank immediately and ask them to freeze your card if you lose your card.

Alert your mobile network if you lose your mobile and ask them to stop service. This will reduce your chances of getting your mobile back but will ensure that your bank accounts are safe.

Do not give app permission to any app to read SMS on your phone. A lot of Apps ask for this permission and get access to a lot of sensitive information through your SMSes. This includes all your bank transactions, card transactions, loans etc. So please be careful when you give permissions for apps.

Do not store credit card info on your computer, phone, on any website, app or browser. While it is convenient to have your card info stored but it is risky as fraudsters often find a way to break into such data.

These should protect you against credit card/debit card fraud.
A$A$A
A credit card is a payment card issued to users (cardholders) to enable the cardholder to pay a merchant for goods and services, based on the cardholder's promise to the card issuer to pay them for the amounts so paid plus other agreed charges.[1] The card issuer (usually a bank) creates a revolving account and grants a line of credit to the cardholder, from which the cardholder can borrow money for payment to a merchant or as a cash advance.

To know all the rewards & risks of using credit cards in India, you can check out this amazing video which beautifully explains all queries regarding credit cards.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
How do you find a driver's license number if you lost your driver's license?
A$A$A
The agency will take any identifying documents that you have and the majority have a digital photo of you in their system to confirm your identity. The aren't going to ask you what your drivers license number is as they will assume (quite correctly) that most people don't know it.

There may be times when you are not sure if your driver’s license has been suspended. This is because notifications from the Department or Bureau of Motor Vehicles may not be sent out on time or perhaps you’ve been away from home. In any event, it is relatively easy to check and find out if your driver’s license is indeed suspended.

Order Your Driving Record Report

Your driving record is kept by the state government and provides information on the current status of your driver’s license and includes the following pieces of information.

– Status of Driver’s License

– Number of Traffic Accidents

– Points on Driving Record

– Traffic Violations, Convictions, and Fines

– DUI Public Records

The status of your driver’s license may be valid, suspended, or canceled. You can check with the following agencies that oversee the driving records of everyone in the state. You will need to see which of the following applies to your state.

– Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV)

– Secretary of State (SoS)

– Department of Public Safety (DPS)

– Department of Revenue (DoR)

– Motor Vehicle Division (MVD)

Usually, you can go to your state’s official government website and quickly find the department that oversees your driving record. Once you have done that, the next step is to see just how they dispense the information. In most states, the confidentiality of your driving record is such that simply getting a copy online may not be possible, so you will need to check first.

The Cost of Ordering Your Driving Record

You should take note that ordering your driver’s license status from the state will probably require a small fee. This is usually a processing fee so that the service can pay for itself. You can appear at the appropriate department in person, go online, or have your driving record sent to you through the mail.

You will want to beware of websites that claim they can check your driver’s license online for free. In fact, you should not go to any such website that makes this claim and instead either work through your state government website or call the appropriate agency and talk the staff member present. Otherwise, you run the risk of getting very little information and instead mostly face a sales pitch for products or services.

There are many reasons why you should check your driver’s license and driving record from time to time. While most people will do so to see if the latest ticket, accident or related incident has added points to their license or worse, caused a suspension, other reasons include checking your driving record against the policy rates of your insurance company.

Effects of Suspended Driver’s License

If you find that your driver’s license has been suspended, here are the following disadvantages;

– Can no longer drive a vehicle

– Higher insurance rates

– Fees and fines for reinstatement

– Fines and possible arrest if caught driving without a proper license

However, with MyLicence, this will change. If you choose to provide your driving licence number, the insurers can take your details straight from the DVLA driver database. The data is provided immediately, so there’s no delay in receiving your quote.

Participating insurers, brokers and price comparison websites using MyLicence will ask you to provide your driving licence number, and the driving licence number of all other named drivers when applying for motor insurance. Your number is the unique 16-character sequence, as pictured above.

The number is used to do an automatic check with the DVLA driver database, to retrieve the required information. The provided information is:

Type of licence held

Length of time the licence has been held for

Entitlements to drive

Penalty points

Convictions

Conviction dates

Disqualifications

Additional Product Support Information, Driving Records

To find out more information, and to see what’s held on your record, you can visit the DVLAs online View Driving Licence Service at www.gov.uk/view-driving-licence

If you choose to self declare your driving entitlements and driving history when obtaining a quote you might not get the best premium possible, compared to providing your DLN.

MyLicence can be used by anyone with a British licence (England, Wales and Scotland), who is insuring a car, van or motorbike. However, if you’re from Northern Ireland, the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands you will be unable to use this service.

This question and variations of it are popping up all over this site of late. The answer to this question is the same as it is to the other ones: If you have your drivers license in your possession, then you have your drivers license number. If you don’t, then taking a quick trip to your local DMV with identity paperwork will net you a new license with your license number upon it.

If you are trying find out OTHER people’s license numbers, questioner (which seems to be the gist of this and other similar questions) then there are a number of routes to do so. I’m not going to divulge any of them here as if you are too lazy or incompetent to think of them, then it wouldn’t be a priority to help you in that manner. Additionally, it’s likely that you are seeking such information for nefarious purposes meaning that it would be inadvisable to assist you anyway.

For UK users:

What to do if you lose your driving licence

In the UK, you will either have a paper licence or a photo card.

Providing that you are a resident of Great Britain and have not been disqualified from driving for any reason then you will be able to apply for a replacement driving licence online. In order to do this you will need to have a valid UK passport or other form of identity and be able to provide the addresses you have lived at in the last three years. It also helps if you know your National Insurance number and your driving licence number. Once you have completed the online application process, you should expect to receive your replacement licence within one week. Applying online is the quickest way to get a replacement driving licence.

Your driving licence photo card

If your photo card licence is due to expire within two years - or you have had a UK passport issued in the last five years - then the DVLA will simply use an electronic copy of your passport photo on your replacement photo card. If however, you do not have a suitable electronic passport photo, you will need to send your application via the post with a new photograph.

Alternative ways to apply for a replacement licence

If you do not want to apply online, you can apply for a replacement licence over the phone, providing that none of your details have changed. You can call the DVLA on 0300 790 6801. You can also apply for a replacement licence by sending off a form in the post. You will need to pick up the D1 application form from your local Post Office. If you do not have a Post Office close by (or your local Post Office does not stock D1 forms), you will need to contact a DVLA representative on 0843 479 9821 so they can post a form to your address. A postal application can take up to three weeks to process.

The cost of replacing your driving licence

If you have lost your driving licence or it has been stolen, defaced or destroyed then it will cost you £20.00 to buy a replacement. If you are applying online, you can make the payment using your debit or credit card. If you are sending a postal application, you can enclose a cheque made payable to the DVLA.

Terms

If you lose your driving licence or it is stolen then you need to report it to the police. By reporting the loss of theft of your driving licence, you will prevent others from being able to impersonate you, using your driving licence.

Can I drive?

Providing that you have applied for a replacement driving licence and are not disqualified from driving for any reason, you can continue to drive whilst you wait for your new driving licence to be sent out. In order for your replacement driving licence application to be deemed valid you need to make sure that you have filled out the application accurately and have complied with the necessary medical enquiries.

What to do if you find your old driving licence

Sometimes people panic when they lose their driving licence and apply for a new one before retracing their steps. If you apply for a replacement driving licence and then find your old one, you will need to return your old licence to the DVLA as it is no longer valid. Along with sending your old licence, it is best to explain that you have already received a replacement, to avoid causing confusion and problems.

Provisional driving licences

Although you may not hold a full driving licence, you still need to apply for a replacement provisional driving licence if you lose your green photo card. The application process is exactly the same and you will also be charged £20.00. Make sure that you report the loss or theft of your provisional licence to the police.

In order to take the driving theory test and practical driving test you need to be able to present your photo card. Therefore if you have misplaced it, or it has been stolen or damaged then you will need to re-arrange your tests. Unfortunately if you turn up on the day without a complete provisional driving licence, then you will not be able to take your test and will have lost the fee.

If you know your test is coming up and you have lost your licence, re-arrange the test as soon as possible to avoid being charged. Remember it can take a week to receive a replacement driving licence if you apply online and up to three weeks if you apply via postal application.

Conclusion

Although it is not the end of the world if you lose your driving licence or provisional licence, it is paramount that you apply for a replacement as soon as possible. The easiest and quickest way to apply for a new driving licence is to visit the Welcome to GOV.UK If you do not have access to the internet, you can send an application through the post. Always make sure you report the loss or theft of your licence to the police, to prevent others from being able to use your licence. If you require any more information about replacing your lost driving licence, we suggest visiting the Welcome to GOV.UK website or getting in touch with one of their phone operatives

I wish you Good Luck.
A$A$A
If You've Lost Your Driver's License

Losing your license is the worst! If you’re lucky, you’ve got annoying few days ahead of you applying for a replaced license. If you’re not so lucky, you can have months, maybe even years, of sorting out identity theft issues. Hopefully, these seven steps below will help you avoid being one of the unlucky ones.

Make Sure Your License Is Actually Missing

Okay. Hasn’t this happened to us all? You’re convinced your license is lost because it’s not in its usual place like your wallet or purse, so you immediately begin to worry that you’ve left it somewhere inappropriate. But wait a second. Breathe. Retrace your steps and check the easy places for a license to get lost first (i.e. your couch, your car or your laundry basket). After you’re certain that the license is really missing, check to see if anything else is missing like your wallet, credit cards, social security card and any document that you think is likely to be near your license.

Notify Important Financial Companies

If you aren’t a member of an identify theft protection service, notify your bank, your credit card companies, your health insurance provider and/or the Social Security Administration. Let them know you have lost your license and ask what protective services they can offer to you. Someone who has found or stolen your license will be able, potentially, to drain your bank account, open new credit card accounts, take out loans in your name and/or accrue medical and utility bills in your name. This may not be the most likely consequence of a lost license, but wouldn’t you rather be safe than sorry.

Report Your Lost License To The Police

Report your lost license to the police. This will help you prove to credit card companies, banks and law enforcement that your license was stolen if any issues arise as a result of the lost license. For example, if any erroneous credit card charges appear on your credit card bill, you’ll have a better chance of proving those charges are fraudulent if you can demonstrate that you lost your license and someone might have stolen your identity. You may be able to report your lost license online, in person or over the phone. Choose the quickest and most convenient way for you to do so. And make sure you obtain a copy of the police report. Remember not to drive anywhere without a license.

Report The Lost License To An Identity Theft Protection Service

If you lose your license (or an important form of identification like social security card), you need to contact your identity theft protection service and/or look into what steps you can to protect yourself from having your identity stolen. Place fraud alerts on your account. Freeze your credit score, which essentially makes it more difficult for identity thieves to open new accounts in your name. Most creditors need to see your credit report before they approve a new account. If they are unable to see a credit report, they, at the very least, will make the process more difficult for the applicant.

Notify Your Local DMV

Contact your nearest DMV branch either in person or online. Apply for a duplicate license. If your license was about to expire you might also be able to renew your driver’s license instead of applying for a duplicate. In some instances, renewing your license might be easier.

Watch Out For Signs Of Identity Theft

Even after you’ve frozen your credit score and you’ve set up fraud alerts, you should still monitor your credit score to ensure new accounts have not been made in your name. Answer your phone when unrecognized numbers call you. The person calling could be a creditor or a representative from a collection agency. It also could be a good idea to run a criminal background on yourself to see if any warrants are out in your name. Sounds extreme, but, as we always say, better safe than sorry.
A$A$A
I would ask the officials at my local issuing agency, DMV or whatever it’s called where you live, in my case the New Jersey Motor Vehicles Commission to issue a replacement document, then read the number off the replacement.

Search for your local state governments corresponding official department. Or take a chance at http://www.dmv.org/New-Jersey. This is an answer for the USA. But wherever you live, can’t you remember where you got the one that you lost?
A$A$A
I've lost/gotten my wallet stolen several times now, which makes me an expert on replacing IDs. Luckily, it's a pretty easy process, but many DMVs do require you to make a trip in person. Take it from me — try to get everything taken care of ASAP. Going out to eat or drink will be a pain in the ass, and you'll run into trouble if you get pulled over. Here's what you need to know about getting a new license if you lost yours.

1. Report a lost or stolen driver's license.

Consider reporting it to the police as soon as it happens to prevent someone from using your identity.

2. Make an appointment with the DMV.

If you're able to take time off work to make a walk-in visit during the week, go with that option to take care of it as soon as possible. Depending on your DMV, appointments might not be available for months, so only make an appointment if your DMV requires it or if you can't go during operating hours. Some states do allow you to apply for a replacement over mail or online under certain requirements. Check the site to see which rules apply to where you live.

3. Bring all necessary documents.

DMVs will typically require the same documents you presented for proof of identification and residency when first applying for a license. Your DMV site will have a list of acceptable documents that include an official passport, birth certificate, and a permanent resident card — not copies! The agent will verify your photo, your social security number, and one of the aforementioned documents.

4. Fill out the form.

Each DMV has its own form and many don't provide them online. Fill them out during your visit and present it with all other necessary papers.

Pro tip: Take a couple blank forms home with you in case you lose your ID again in the future! You'll still have to wait in line, but at least you won't waste another second filling it out at the DMV.

You will get a receipt after paying and/or an interim license that's valid until you receive your replacement in the mail. Expect it to arrive in two weeks to two months, depending on your state.
A$A$A
If You've Lost Your Driver's License

Losing your license is the worst! If you’re lucky, you’ve got annoying few days ahead of you applying for a replaced license. If you’re not so lucky, you can have months, maybe even years, of sorting out identity theft issues. Hopefully, these seven steps below will help you avoid being one of the unlucky ones.

Make Sure Your License Is Actually Missing

Okay. Hasn’t this happened to us all? You’re convinced your license is lost because it’s not in its usual place like your wallet or purse, so you immediately begin to worry that you’ve left it somewhere inappropriate. But wait a second. Breathe. Retrace your steps and check the easy places for a license to get lost first (i.e. your couch, your car or your laundry basket). After you’re certain that the license is really missing, check to see if anything else is missing like your wallet, credit cards, social security card and any document that you think is likely to be near your license.

Notify Important Financial Companies

If you aren’t a member of an identify theft protection service, notify your bank, your credit card companies, your health insurance provider and/or the Social Security Administration. Let them know you have lost your license and ask what protective services they can offer to you. Someone who has found or stolen your license will be able, potentially, to drain your bank account, open new credit card accounts, take out loans in your name and/or accrue medical and utility bills in your name. This may not be the most likely consequence of a lost license, but wouldn’t you rather be safe than sorry.

Report Your Lost License To The Police

Report your lost license to the police. This will help you prove to credit card companies, banks and law enforcement that your license was stolen if any issues arise as a result of the lost license. For example, if any erroneous credit card charges appear on your credit card bill, you’ll have a better chance of proving those charges are fraudulent if you can demonstrate that you lost your license and someone might have stolen your identity. You may be able to report your lost license online, in person or over the phone. Choose the quickest and most convenient way for you to do so. And make sure you obtain a copy of the police report. Remember not to drive anywhere without a license.

Report The Lost License To An Identity Theft Protection Service

If you lose your license (or an important form of identification like social security card), you need to contact your identity theft protection service and/or look into what steps you can to protect yourself from having your identity stolen. Place fraud alerts on your account. Freeze your credit score, which essentially makes it more difficult for identity thieves to open new accounts in your name. Most creditors need to see your credit report before they approve a new account. If they are unable to see a credit report, they, at the very least, will make the process more difficult for the applicant.

Notify Your Local DMV

Contact your nearest DMV branch either in person or online. Apply for a duplicate license. If your license was about to expire you might also be able to renew your driver’s license instead of applying for a duplicate. In some instances, renewing your license might be easier.

Watch Out For Signs Of Identity Theft

Even after you’ve frozen your credit score and you’ve set up fraud alerts, you should still monitor your credit score to ensure new accounts have not been made in your name. Answer your phone when unrecognized numbers call you. The person calling could be a creditor or a representative from a collection agency. It also could be a good idea to run a criminal background on yourself to see if any warrants are out in your name. Sounds extreme, but, as we always say, better safe than sorry.
A$A$A
Whether you’re a seasoned motorist or just got your driver’s license last month, mistakes – to the tune of traffic tickets and car accidents – happen.

However, mistakes bring consequences, and in the driving world, consequences affect your driving privileges.

Thus, it’s vital to stay on top of your license status, and you can do that by order a copy of your driving record.

Your driving record details:

1. Your license status, meaning whether you’re good to go or have a suspended license.

2. Information about traffic tickets you’ve gotten within the past certain number of years (often three or five; some states provide 10-year histories).

3. How many, if any, points you’ve accumulated due to traffic tickets, auto accidents, and other driving-related violations. Based on your state’s point system, you’ll lose your driving privileges after accumulating a certain number of points.

Not all driving record information is negative, though. Driving records also detail your driver license class and any endorsements you have.

To find drivers license number without the actual license online you also can use one popular service or go to DMV office in your state.

Some states require drivers to go into their local branch and:

1. Present photo identification (your driver’s license!).

2. Complete a driving record application.

3. Pay a fee.

Other states allow drivers to apply for their records by mail, by telephone, or through their state’s online branch.

To lookup or find out the status of your driver’s license, you can either dmv.orgcontact your local DMV office.

Privacy laws have made it tough to replace a lost drivers license, or get privacy protected data, even for yourself.

The best bet is to take any other id you have available, ALONG WITH YOUR BIRTH CERTIFICATE, directly to the closest DMV office to your home or job.

If you don’t have birth certificate , NOW is the time to start on the job of getting one, which is apt to take a while. Sooner or later you are apt to need it in a hurry.

You MIGHT be able to find it online, but I would suggest a trip to your local DMV office. They can help you with any forms you need, and can often save you several trips by doing so. If you have any other photo ID, I would strongly suggest taking it with you. A birth certificate is another wise item to take in with you. If you know a police officer well enough to ask a favor, he or she might be able to get your license number for you with less hassle.

Go to your dmv. apply for duplicate license or just wait in line long enough to ask for your license number. Make sure you have alternative identifications with you.

Go to your bank. Ask them if they have that info on file or if you can wade through your old processed checks.

Call your insurance company. Surely they have it on file.

You may be able to find it is some states by going to the DMV website but you will have to provide a lot of information.

It is getting rare to find websites like this due to the Real ID act which has much tighter security than before.

If that doesn't work you can go to your DMV but must have your birth certificate, social security card and two pieces of mail that have been delivered to your address.

There may be a small fee just to get your number but if your lost your license or it was stolen you should make a police report and take it with you to the DMV. They usually waive the fee if this is the case.

If you want a new license you will have to pay the applicable fee.

Sigh…

This question and variations of it are popping up all over this site of late. The answer to this question is the same as it is to the other ones: If you have your drivers license in your possession, then you have your drivers license number. If you don’t, then taking a quick trip to your local DMV with identity paperwork will net you a new license with your license number upon it.

If you are trying find out OTHER people’s license numbers, questioner (which seems to be the gist of this and other similar questions) then there are a number of routes to do so. I’m not going to divulge any of them here as if you are too lazy or incompetent to think of them, then it wouldn’t be a priority to help you in that manner. Additionally, it’s likely that you are seeking such information for nefarious purposes meaning that it would be inadvisable to assist you anyway.

Not legally. But theoretically it is possible.

There are multiple databases that were stolen from various stores and organizations that contained all kinds of personal information including DL number. Reportedly they are available online on the darknet.

To go after you directly to try to locate your personal information, that person would need to be highly motivated. If they don't have a personal grudge against you, and you don't have lots of money in secret accounts online :-) , you are less likely to become a victim of Identity Theft. If you suspect that somebody has stolen your personal information, you should contact law enforcement, lawyer and financial institutions to let them know. Wouldn't be a bad idea to let your relatives and friends know as well.

Disclaimer: I'm not a lawyer - so none of this constitutes a legal advice. Your decisions are your own.
A$A$A
At best, losing your driver’s license is a major hassle. But you can minimize the chances of reaching full-on disaster with these urgent must-dos. Whether your license is lost or stolen, you just can’t afford to take any chances.

You can try to find driver's license number if you lost your driver's license by using special services.

1) Act Fast

The quicker you respond the better. Calmly retrace your steps and check all the usual license-swallowing suspects:

Laundry basket.

Pockets of the clothing you wore when you last had it.

Washing machine/dryer.

Car (inside and out, console, in, under and around seats).

Between couch cushions.

If you still come up empty, now is the time to quickly react as if someone stoleyour driver’s license.

2) Assess What’s Missing

A lost driver’s license is one thing, but a lost wallet can mean a whole new world of hurt. If anyone had access to your information, and you aren’t a member of an identification theft protection service such as LifeLock, you need to immediately notify:

Your bank(s).

Your credit card companies.

Your health insurance provider.

The SSA (if your Social Security card was in your wallet).

3) Know What’s at Risk

With the info on your driver’s license, a crook can clobber your credit or start you down the path to financial ruin by:

Draining your bank accounts.

Opening new credit card accounts.

Taking out loans in your name.

Racking up utility and medical bills.

Unfortunately, identity theft can mean more than a few fraudulent charges. ID forgers can also easily swap your photo and start using your license as their own. Danger arises when they get caught engaging in illegal activity and present your driver’s license as their own to law enforcement.

You can try to find driver's license number if you lost your driver's license by using special services.

4) Report the Loss to the Police

Filing a police report creates a paper trail. This helps prove to credit card companies, banks, and even law enforcement that recent activity such as fraudulent charges on your credit card or bank account or illegal misconduct was the work of identity thieves. You should:

Find the quickest way to file a police report—online, in person, over the phone.

Be as specific as possible. Small details that don’t seem like a big deal now could turn out to be valuable info later.

Obtain a copy of the report for yourself.

5) Report the Loss to Your ID Theft Protection Service

Immediately contact your identity theft protection service so it can:

Place fraud alerts.

Freeze your credit report.

And then closely watch your financial accounts.

If you aren’t already a member of an Identity Theft Protection Company, it’s never too late to inquire. Companies such as LifeLock take an aggressive and proactive approach to protecting your identity before you’ve lost your driver’s license or wallet. LifeLock institutes its 5 Points of Protection that include:

Monitoring your identity for theft.

Scanning for identity threats.

Responding to identity theft.

Tracking your credit score.

And a $1 million guarantee.

Typically, credit-monitoring services have a waiting period before enrolling you as a member. If you dropped the ball this time around, don't put yourself at further risk down the road. Enroll NOW.

6) Notify the State DMV

Contact the nearest DMV branch to report your lost driver’s license. The State might flag your license number in case another driver gets pulled over by law enforcement and presents your driver’s license as his own. Often times a clerk will only suggest that you immediately apply for a duplicate, but it doesn’t hurt to ask about a database the DMV shares with the police.

You can try to find driver's license number if you lost your driver's license by using special services.

7) Replace Your Lost Driver’s License

Depending on when your current driver’s license expires, you might have the option to renew your driver's license versus applying for a duplicate. This might be the easier route considering some states offer online license renewal. First, obtain a copy of your driving record to determine the current status of your driver’s license and check when it expires. It’s also a good idea to check your driving record periodically to ensure someone isn’t getting traffic tickets and racking up points under your name.

If renewal isn’t an option, you’ll likely have to apply for your replacement in person. Before you scramble to the DMV, be sure you:

Collect all the required documents and acceptable forms of identification.

Have a form of payment accepted by the DMV. Cash might not pose a problem—unless of course you also lost your debit and credit cards, too.

Get a ride.

8) Drive Nowhere without Your Driver’s License

It’s illegal to drive without a valid driver’s license on your person. This makes applying for a replacement a little tricky. But don’t risk getting a traffic ticket on top of dealing with everything else. Citations mean added points on your driving record and a potential increase in your auto insurance rates. You might be able to use your driving record as proof of valid licensure until you renew or replace your lost license. But check with the DMV or local law enforcement first.

9) Watch for the Signs of Identity Theft

Channel your inner Magnum P.I. and begin keeping a close watch for anything out of the ordinary. Keep the risks listed above in mind, and:

Periodically run a criminal background check on yourself to see if warrants pop up.

Monitor your credit score by periodically reviewing your credit report.

Answer your phone when numbers you don't recognize pop up on your caller ID. It could be a creditor or collection agency calling to collect on an account that ID thieves fraudulently created.

You can try to find driver's license number if you lost your driver's license by using special services.
A$A$A
So I encountered a similar situation around a year ago. I lost my license and didn't had any old photocopy of it so that I can find my driver’s license number. These are a few things that I did.

I am only answering for an Indian driver's license

The firsts thing was obviously visiting the RTO’s website. My license is from Rajasthan so I visited the same’s website. However, I was disappointed to find that the information provided there was very confusing and a lot of times the website didn't work as intended (it hanged a lot).

Next, I went to police station to register a first information report (FIR), whose copy I needed to get a new DL from the RTO. The cop, as usual, yelled at it me for being careless and then registered my report with my address (make sure you give the same address as on your DL).

Next, you will need to take the report’s attested copy to your RTO and submit it with the completely filled “lost driver's license form.” If you visit the office in the morning you can easily get the license by the evening or the next morning.

Next, you’ll receive the new license’s duplicate copy.

As for finding the driver's license number online, I don't think that the Indian RTO system has an database which can be accessed by us. It can be in some cities such as Mumbai or Delhi, but certainly not in every state or city.

So, I would suggest you visit your RTO’s website, they might have a way to find your DL number.

If not, you can follow the above mentioned steps.

Hope this helps.

Cheers.
A$A$A
There may be times when you are not sure if your driver’s license has been suspended. This is because notifications from the Department or Bureau of Motor Vehicles may not be sent out on time or perhaps you’ve been away from home. In any event, it is relatively easy to check and find out if your driver’s license is indeed suspended.

Order Your Driving Record Report

Your driving record is kept by the state government and provides information on the current status of your driver’s license and includes the following pieces of information.

– Status of Driver’s License

– Number of Traffic Accidents

– Points on Driving Record

– Traffic Violations, Convictions, and Fines

– DUI Public Records

The status of your driver’s license may be valid, suspended, or canceled. You can check with the following agencies that oversee the driving records of everyone in the state. You will need to see which of the following applies to your state.

– Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV)

– Secretary of State (SoS)

– Department of Public Safety (DPS)

– Department of Revenue (DoR)

– Motor Vehicle Division (MVD)

Usually, you can go to your state’s official government website and quickly find the department that oversees your driving record. Once you have done that, the next step is to see just how they dispense the information. In most states, the confidentiality of your driving record is such that simply getting a copy online may not be possible, so you will need to check first.

The Cost of Ordering Your Driving Record

You should take note that ordering your driver’s license status from the state will probably require a small fee. This is usually a processing fee so that the service can pay for itself. You can appear at the appropriate department in person, go online, or have your driving record sent to you through the mail.

You will want to beware of websites that claim they can check your driver’s license online for free. In fact, you should not go to any such website that makes this claim and instead either work through your state government website or call the appropriate agency and talk the staff member present. Otherwise, you run the risk of getting very little information and instead mostly face a sales pitch for products or services.

There are many reasons why you should check your driver’s license and driving record from time to time. While most people will do so to see if the latest ticket, accident or related incident has added points to their license or worse, caused a suspension, other reasons include checking your driving record against the policy rates of your insurance company.

Effects of Suspended Driver’s License

If you find that your driver’s license has been suspended, here are the following disadvantages;

– Can no longer drive a vehicle

– Higher insurance rates

– Fees and fines for reinstatement

– Fines and possible arrest if caught driving without a proper license

However, with MyLicence, this will change. If you choose to provide your driving licence number, the insurers can take your details straight from the DVLA driver database. The data is provided immediately, so there’s no delay in receiving your quote.

Participating insurers, brokers and price comparison websites using MyLicence will ask you to provide your driving licence number, and the driving licence number of all other named drivers when applying for motor insurance. Your number is the unique 16-character sequence, as pictured above.

The number is used to do an automatic check with the DVLA driver database, to retrieve the required information. The provided information is:

Type of licence held

Length of time the licence has been held for

Entitlements to drive

Penalty points

Convictions

Conviction dates

Disqualifications

Additional Product Support Information, Driving Records

To find out more information, and to see what’s held on your record, you can visit the DVLAs online View Driving Licence Service at www.gov.uk/view-driving-licence

If you choose to self declare your driving entitlements and driving history when obtaining a quote you might not get the best premium possible, compared to providing your DLN.

MyLicence can be used by anyone with a British licence (England, Wales and Scotland), who is insuring a car, van or motorbike. However, if you’re from Northern Ireland, the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands you will be unable to use this service.

This question and variations of it are popping up all over this site of late. The answer to this question is the same as it is to the other ones: If you have your drivers license in your possession, then you have your drivers license number. If you don’t, then taking a quick trip to your local DMV with identity paperwork will net you a new license with your license number upon it.

If you are trying find out OTHER people’s license numbers, questioner (which seems to be the gist of this and other similar questions) then there are a number of routes to do so. I’m not going to divulge any of them here as if you are too lazy or incompetent to think of them, then it wouldn’t be a priority to help you in that manner. Additionally, it’s likely that you are seeking such information for nefarious purposes meaning that it would be inadvisable to assist you anyway.

For UK users:

What to do if you lose your driving licence

In the UK, you will either have a paper licence or a photo card.

Providing that you are a resident of Great Britain and have not been disqualified from driving for any reason then you will be able to apply for a replacement driving licence online. In order to do this you will need to have a valid UK passport or other form of identity and be able to provide the addresses you have lived at in the last three years. It also helps if you know your National Insurance number and your driving licence number. Once you have completed the online application process, you should expect to receive your replacement licence within one week. Applying online is the quickest way to get a replacement driving licence.

Your driving licence photo card

If your photo card licence is due to expire within two years - or you have had a UK passport issued in the last five years - then the DVLA will simply use an electronic copy of your passport photo on your replacement photo card. If however, you do not have a suitable electronic passport photo, you will need to send your application via the post with a new photograph.

Alternative ways to apply for a replacement licence

If you do not want to apply online, you can apply for a replacement licence over the phone, providing that none of your details have changed. You can call the DVLA on 0300 790 6801. You can also apply for a replacement licence by sending off a form in the post. You will need to pick up the D1 application form from your local Post Office. If you do not have a Post Office close by (or your local Post Office does not stock D1 forms), you will need to contact a DVLA representative on 0843 479 9821 so they can post a form to your address. A postal application can take up to three weeks to process.

The cost of replacing your driving licence

If you have lost your driving licence or it has been stolen, defaced or destroyed then it will cost you £20.00 to buy a replacement. If you are applying online, you can make the payment using your debit or credit card. If you are sending a postal application, you can enclose a cheque made payable to the DVLA.

Terms

If you lose your driving licence or it is stolen then you need to report it to the police. By reporting the loss of theft of your driving licence, you will prevent others from being able to impersonate you, using your driving licence.

Can I drive?

Providing that you have applied for a replacement driving licence and are not disqualified from driving for any reason, you can continue to drive whilst you wait for your new driving licence to be sent out. In order for your replacement driving licence application to be deemed valid you need to make sure that you have filled out the application accurately and have complied with the necessary medical enquiries.

What to do if you find your old driving licence

Sometimes people panic when they lose their driving licence and apply for a new one before retracing their steps. If you apply for a replacement driving licence and then find your old one, you will need to return your old licence to the DVLA as it is no longer valid. Along with sending your old licence, it is best to explain that you have already received a replacement, to avoid causing confusion and problems.

Provisional driving licences

Although you may not hold a full driving licence, you still need to apply for a replacement provisional driving licence if you lose your green photo card. The application process is exactly the same and you will also be charged £20.00. Make sure that you report the loss or theft of your provisional licence to the police.

In order to take the driving theory test and practical driving test you need to be able to present your photo card. Therefore if you have misplaced it, or it has been stolen or damaged then you will need to re-arrange your tests. Unfortunately if you turn up on the day without a complete provisional driving licence, then you will not be able to take your test and will have lost the fee.

If you know your test is coming up and you have lost your licence, re-arrange the test as soon as possible to avoid being charged. Remember it can take a week to receive a replacement driving licence if you apply online and up to three weeks if you apply via postal application.

Conclusion

Although it is not the end of the world if you lose your driving licence or provisional licence, it is paramount that you apply for a replacement as soon as possible. The easiest and quickest way to apply for a new driving licence is to visit the Welcome to GOV.UK If you do not have access to the internet, you can send an application through the post. Always make sure you report the loss or theft of your licence to the police, to prevent others from being able to use your licence. If you require any more information about replacing your lost driving licence, we suggest visiting the Welcome to GOV.UK website or getting in touch with one of their phone operatives

I wish you Good Luck.
A$A$A
Replacing a Lost License

Losing your driver's license, or or worse yet having it stolen, creates a myriad of problems, but it does happen. Let DMV.org: The DMV Made Simple help you through the process of getting it replaced.

Many states require you to file a police report if your driver's license has been lost or stolen or if you know someone is using someone else's driver license numbers. Click around DMV.org: The DMV Made Simple to learn the requirements for your state. Two common search terms that people often make are " how do I find my driver's license number" and "how to find your drivers license number?" A quick search of our state-specific lost license pages will answer all your questions in detail.

We've also linked to available online forms for you to complete for a duplicate license. In order to get one you'll need your drivers license number and some documentation. We list all the documentation needed, and let you know how and where to get it done. If your state offers replacements online, we'll let you know. And for many states, we even list the fees for a replacement license.

It is illegal to drive without a driver's license that shows your driver license number in your possession. Let us inform you of the steps to take in order to get your driver's license back―fast.

Alabama

Alaska

Arizona

Arkansas

California

Colorado

Connecticut

Delaware

Florida

Georgia

Hawaii

Idaho

Illinois

Indiana

Iowa

Kansas

Kentucky

Louisiana

Maine

Maryland

Massachusetts

Michigan

Minnesota

Mississippi

Missouri

Montana

Nebraska

Nevada

New Hampshire

New Jersey

New Mexico

New York

North Carolina

North Dakota

Ohio

Oklahoma

Oregon

Pennsylvania

Rhode Island

South Carolina

South Dakota

Tennessee

Texas

Utah

Vermont

Virginia

Washington

West Virginia

Wisconsin

Wyoming

Washington DC
A$A$A
What To Do If You Lose Your Driving License?

Losing your driver’s license is one of the main fears of any driver. What to do now? How can you fix it as soon as possible? In this article, I will try to give you all the keys to recover your driver’s license in the shortest possible time.

I lost my driving license, what do I do?

Yes, whether for stealing, theft or for a self-neglect reason, you can lose your driver’s license and it happens very often. It can happen to all of us and after all, you have just lost your card not your driving license in whole. Remember that the first thing is to do in case you have suffered a robbery, file the corresponding complaint to the police officer and file it in the Traffic Headquarters.

Then, in the case of robbery or loss, you must request a duplicate of your card in said Headquarters. To do this, you must present the necessary documentation in the Provincial and Traffic Headquarters.

Documentation for driver’s license duplicates

The official application form for a duplicate of the card.

A recent passport size color photo.

Your ID, Passport or Resident Card in force.

The duplicate rates demanded by Traffic (which in 2017 are $20).

Can I drive without a license or be fined?

If you have lost the license, it is not recommended that you drive again until you have your duplicate, unless it is an urgency that you cannot avoid. In fact, if an agent stops you and you do not present your driving license, the fine will be 10 dollars.

You may also like to read: Ways Easily

Of course, never opt for the solution to use the old card until you get the new one. Circular with an expired driving license or with data not updated, can carry fines of between 80 and 200 dollars. The best: get your duplicate as soon as possible and do not drive until then.

What if I lose my license points?

What if you have lost not your card only but all the points of the card as well (that is, that you have withdrawn the permit)? The problem could be more serious, but calm, you can recover it through a training course and the passing of certain tests. In addition, at some driving school, you can pay for the costs of enrolling in the course, as well as the fees for control tests and the medical examination that you must pass. Thus, you can save your driving license as fast as possible and without additional costs.
A$A$A
What the bar codes on your driver's license reveal about you, and why it matters

When Elisabeth Hall visited a doctor earlier this year, the office manager wanted to make a copy of her driver's license.

"I willingly showed him my driver's license but asked him to not make a copy," Hall said. "I explained that by viewing it, he could confirm my identity from the picture, but I didn't want a copy of my license made a part of their office records. It contains info which can be used for identity theft and they don't need it."

The manager insisted. Hall stuck to her guns, and asked to speak to the doctor. But the doctor refused to come out, and the manager said Hall wouldn't be treated unless they made a copy of her license.

Hall left and found a different doctor.

Hall's husband Kenneth thought she made a smart choice.

"In the case of seniors like me, the doctor already has the Social Security number as it appears on the Medicare card, but they demand the driver's license as well?" Kenneth Hall said. "They have a right to view it to be sure the picture matches the presenter, but banks and doctors regularly insist on making a 'Xerox' copy."

Additional Product Support Information, Driving Records

Indeed, driver's licenses have personal information that could be used for nefarious purposes if the info falls into the wrong hands.

And if a paper copy isn't bad enough, some businesses purchase scanners that allow the user to swipe a license, giving the swiper a digital record of your personal information.

One of the many apps for sale that can scan driver's license bar codes.iPhone App Store

Anyone can buy these scanners.

And anyone with a smart phone can download an app that can perform the same scan.

So exactly what can be found on your license's two bar codes?

"The information that appears on the front of the document is on the bar code to allow law enforcement to verify the license quickly and accurately," MVC spokeswoman Mairin Bellack said in an email.

That would mean your name, address, height, weight, birth date, license number and signature.

We asked about the second bar code — the vertical one on the back of your license — but MVC wouldn't only say it's for "internal MVC inventory control use."

"N.J.'s driver's license is a secure document with many security features," Bellack said. "The more information that is given out, the less secure the document becomes."

Okay.

We asked MVC about the scanners.

"It is not realistic for the MVC to 'guess' what the technology of scanners that may be 'on the market' are capable of reading," Bellack said. "The MVC does not utilize license scanners and does not provide any type of assistance for their development."

Okay again.

"It is no surprise that the MVC is being close-lipped on the data captured on the bar codes," said Adam Levin, former head of the state's Division of Consumer Affairs and author of "Swiped: What Identity Thieves Do--And How to Stop Them." "Even if the information is being used for internal purposes, consumers have a right to know."

To hopefully learn more, we submitted an Open Public Records Act for specifics about what's on the bar codes. We'll let you know what we learn.

We then tried to get answers for another Bamboozled reader who had concerns about MVC's use of Social Security numbers.

Howard Fischer, a reader who wanted to know if there were consequences for not sharing a Social Security number when renewing a license or registration in New Jersey.Alexandra Pais/for NJ Advance Media

"License and registration renewals in New Jersey still require [a Social Security number]," reader Howard Fischer said. "Why does the NJMVC need Social Security numbers? Can that entry be left blank without repercussions?"

We asked MVC what happens if a Jersey driver refuses to provide a Social Security number, even if the Social Security number is already in the MVC system.

Bellack said the submission of Social Security numbers is required by law.

"The number will be used to prevent errors, enforce federal and state laws and assist in the collection of motor vehicle fees," the MVC spokeswoman said.

That didn't answer the question of what happens to a driver who refuses. So we asked again.

And we got the same non-answer answer given above.

MORE ON THE BAR CODES

Back to those bar codes.

While New Jersey's licenses have lots of protection features, exactly what third parties do with scanned information is iffy.

The federal Driver Privacy Protection Act (DPPA) prohibits the disclosure of personal information without the express consent of the license holder, with certain exceptions, said Mitch Feather of Creative Associates, a Madison-based cybersecurity and infrastructure consulting firm.

Part of the law allows swiping "for use in the normal course of business by a legitimate business or its agents, employees, or contractors, but only to verify the accuracy of personal information."

For example, Feather said, business that sell alcohol or tobacco may use license information for age verification. Those who swipe will make sure the birth date on the front of the license hasn't been tampered with and matches the information on the bar code.

"It is not illegal for businesses to scan your license in order to verify your age or check for fraud, but they are not supposed to collect and market this data," Levin said.

A couple of states have banned the storage of swiped information -- called warehousing -- except in certain circumstances. New Jersey is not one of them.

In 2011, New Jersey introduced the Enhanced Drivers License (EDL) to comply with a different federal law that mandates that states create more stringent ID cards, Feather said. Like other states' EDLs, New Jersey's has a number of security features - some obvious and some not so obvious.

"So as to not be self-defeating, New Jersey will - understandably - not fully disclose all of the security features," Mitchell said.

The two bar codes are a feature of the EDL. The strip along the short edge of the license is a called a one-dimensional bar code, or 1D bar code, Feather said. The strip along the long edge of the driver's license is called a two-dimensional bar code, or 2D.

Feather said the 2D bar code is the one that holds the same information as the front of your license. What's on the 1D bar code is unknown.

As one point of solace for protection-concerned citizens, New Jersey does not include Social Security numbers in the 2D bar code, Feather said.

PROTECT YOURSELF

This all means that means consumers are left with the responsibility of checking up on what every company that asks for a swipe does with the information.

We did a little checking.

Pharmacies are required by law to scan your license for certain sales.

"The only time we scan is when anyone purchases a pseudoephedrine product, which is a precursor ingredient for the making of meth and is required by law," said Mike DeAngelis, a spokesman for CVS/pharmacy.

He said the scan is connected to a database called MethCheck, which runs the bar code on the back of a state-issued identification to make sure the buyer hasn't purchased more than the allowable maximum, which is 9 grams in a 30-day period.

CVS/pharmacy said it doesn't store the information, but simply gets a ping back from the database with a "yes" or "no" for the customer to make the purchase.

Rite Aid does the same kind of scan, but it said it does collect the information.

We asked how the info is stored, and a spokeswoman said, "Because of the confidential and proprietary nature of this information, we are unable to disclose specifics, but the information is securely stored and maintained."

Other businesses require a license scan when a consumer makes a return.

Bamboozled took a look at that a few years ago, and we found it's part of a system used by many retailers to track "serial returners." You know, customers who purchase stuff, use it temporarily and then try to return the item.

"Stores like Target, Best Buy and Victoria's Secret scan customers' driver's licenses stating that it is part of their return policy to prevent fraudulent returns and to create customer `return profiles,'" Levin said. "Unfortunately, it doesn't stop there. The information that is captured from the magnetic strip is collected and stored in their databases."

He said retailers should not have a "secret database" that stores your customer information without your consent, calling it a "violation of your privacy."

We reached out to Best Buy, Victoria's Secret and Walmart to ask: Do they store the scanned information? How do they keep it secure? Who has access to it? Exactly what information are they getting from the scan?

None of the companies responded.

What's the big secret?

As a consumer, ask questions, and be cautious.

Feather said when merchants ask to scan his license for what he'd consider a less-than-obvious reason, he questions them about why they need it before turning it over.

If you do, be prepared for some interesting responses and consequences, he said, such as retailers who turn you away.

Levin said consumers must be vigilant and discerning in handing over their licenses and allowing them to be swiped.

"Since New Jersey has a policy against allowing drivers to smile and/or show teeth on drivers license pictures in order to prevent fraud, why should you have to grin and bear it when it comes to having your personal data swiped at local stores?" he said. "If it is not absolutely required, just say `no.'"

Big Brother is watching, for sure. And we're not sure we have a complaint about that. What we do have a problem with is when the watchers aren't being forthright and transparent about when they scan, why they scan, what information they get from the scan and how they secure that information.
A$A$A
Losing your driver's license, or or worse yet having it stolen, creates a myriad of problems, but it does happen. Let License Plate Search, Driving Records Search and VIN Search help you through the process of getting it replaced.

Many states require you to file a police report if your driver's license has been lost or stolen or if you know someone is using someone else's driver license numbers. Click around DMV.org: The DMV Made Simple to learn the requirements for your state. Two common search terms that people often make are " how do I find my driver's license number" and "how to find your drivers license number?" A quick search of our state-specific lost license pages will answer all your questions in detail.

We've also linked to available online forms for you to complete for a duplicate license. In order to get one you'll need your drivers license number and some documentation. We list all the documentation needed, and let you know how and where to get it done. If your state offers replacements online, we'll let you know. And for many states, we even list the fees for a replacement license.

It is illegal to drive without a driver's license that shows your driver license number in your possession. Let us inform you of the steps to take in order to get your driver's license back―fast.

Alabama

Alaska

Arizona

Arkansas

California

Colorado

Connecticut

Delaware

Florida

Georgia

Hawaii

Idaho

Illinois

Indiana

Iowa

Kansas

Kentucky

Louisiana

Maine

Maryland

Massachusetts

Michigan

Minnesota

Mississippi

Missouri

Montana

Nebraska

Nevada

New Hampshire

New Jersey

New Mexico

New York

North Carolina

North Dakota

Ohio

Oklahoma

Oregon

Pennsylvania

Rhode Island

South Carolina

South Dakota

Tennessee

Texas

Utah

Vermont

Virginia

Washington

West Virginia

Wisconsin

Wyoming

Washington DC
A$A$A
What To Do If You Lose Your Driving License?

Losing your driver’s license is one of the main fears of any driver. What to do now? How can you fix it as soon as possible? In this article, I will try to give you all the keys to recover your driver’s license in the shortest possible time.

I lost my driving license, what do I do?

Yes, whether for stealing, theft or for a self-neglect reason, you can lose your driver’s license and it happens very often. It can happen to all of us and after all, you have just lost your card not your driving license in whole. Remember that the first thing is to do in case you have suffered a robbery, file the corresponding complaint to the police officer and file it in the Traffic Headquarters.

Then, in the case of robbery or loss, you must request a duplicate of your card in said Headquarters. To do this, you must present the necessary documentation in the Provincial and Traffic Headquarters.

Documentation for driver’s license duplicates

The official application form for a duplicate of the card.

A recent passport size color photo.

Your ID, Passport or Resident Card in force.

The duplicate rates demanded by Traffic (which in 2017 are $20).

Can I drive without a license or be fined?

If you have lost the license, it is not recommended that you drive again until you have your duplicate, unless it is an urgency that you cannot avoid. In fact, if an agent stops you and you do not present your driving license, the fine will be 10 dollars.

You may also like to read: Ways Easily

Of course, never opt for the solution to use the old card until you get the new one. Circular with an expired driving license or with data not updated, can carry fines of between 80 and 200 dollars. The best: get your duplicate as soon as possible and do not drive until then.

What if I lose my license points?

What if you have lost not your card only but all the points of the card as well (that is, that you have withdrawn the permit)? The problem could be more serious, but calm, you can recover it through a training course and the passing of certain tests. In addition, at some driving school, you can pay for the costs of enrolling in the course, as well as the fees for control tests and the medical examination that you must pass. Thus, you can save your driving license as fast as possible and without additional costs.
A$A$A
How Do You Look up License Plate Numbers?

If you want to know how to look up license plate numbers online, really is very quick and easy. You first need to have the license plate number. Then go to a reverselookup directory and enter the license number in the search box provided and click on the search button.

If you need to find information on a car owner, there are a few websites that can help.

Here License Plate Search, you can look up information on car owners by name, VIN, or license plate number. DMV reports include:

- Car owner

 - License plate numbers

 - Registration and title information

 - Criminal driving records including

 - DUI arrest records and police reports

 - Mug shots

 - Car crashes

 - Suspension of driver's license

 - Information on felonies and misdemeanors

 - Sex offender listings

 - Warrant information

 - Inmate records.

License Plate Search does not collect any information about the searcher so when you run a report, the person will have no idea you looked them up. In fact, theindividual you are searching for will not even know that anyone pulled a report.

How do these Websites Work?

 The websites listed here are called third party information providers. These websites pull records from DMV, court, corrections, and vital statistics databases. This saves you from doing multiple Internet searches on your own and from driving around town to collect the information.

 Since all of this information is public record and because of the Freedom of Information Act, you have every right to request this information on anyone you choose. Best of all, records are provided from across the nation.

If your vehicle is registered as a commercial vehicle, you can deduct the registration fee on your tax return.

You can find your license plate number on your registration card.

To find a free license plate lookup you can visit special service, where you lookup a license plate quickly and cheapest.

Instantly Access Your Full VIN Search. Report From a National Database.

Advanced VIN check service instantly scans millions of vehicle records to deliver the most comprehensive Vehicle Ownership and History Reports available.

Service give you more information as:

1.Vehicle Ownership History with number of vehicle owners, duration of ownership, registration details.

2.Problem Checklist with possible problems.

3.Title Records with history records for over 60 types of brands.

4.Vehicle Accident History with viewing number of accidents reported.

Ok. That's all and good luck to you!

How Do You Look up License Plate Numbers?

If you want to know how to look up license plate numbers online, really is very quick and easy. You first need to have the license plate number. Then go to a reverselookup directory and enter the license number in the search box provided and click on the search button.

If you need to find information on a car owner, there are a few websites that can help.

Here License Plate Search, you can look up information on car owners by name, VIN, or license plate number. DMV reports include:

- Car owner

 - License plate numbers

 - Registration and title information

 - Criminal driving records including

 - DUI arrest records and police reports

 - Mug shots

 - Car crashes

 - Suspension of driver's license

 - Information on felonies and misdemeanors

 - Sex offender listings

 - Warrant information

 - Inmate records.

License Plate Search does not collect any information about the searcher so when you run a report, the person will have no idea you looked them up. In fact, theindividual you are searching for will not even know that anyone pulled a report.

How do these Websites Work?

 The websites listed here are called third party information providers. These websites pull records from DMV, court, corrections, and vital statistics databases. This saves you from doing multiple Internet searches on your own and from driving around town to collect the information.

 Since all of this information is public record and because of the Freedom of Information Act, you have every right to request this information on anyone you choose. Best of all, records are provided from across the nation.

If your vehicle is registered as a commercial vehicle, you can deduct the registration fee on your tax return.

You can find your license plate number on your registration card.

To find a free license plate lookup you can visit special service, where you lookup a license plate quickly and cheapest.

Instantly Access Your Full VIN Search. Report From a National Database.

Advanced VIN check service instantly scans millions of vehicle records to deliver the most comprehensive Vehicle Ownership and History Reports available.

Service give you more information as:

1.Vehicle Ownership History with number of vehicle owners, duration of ownership, registration details.

2.Problem Checklist with possible problems.

3.Title Records with history records for over 60 types of brands.

4.Vehicle Accident History with viewing number of accidents reported.

Ok. That's all and good luck to you!
A$A$A
Hi ,

"I willingly showed him my driver's license but asked him to not make a copy," Hall said. "I explained that by viewing it, he could confirm my identity from the picture, but I didn't want a copy of my license made a part of their office records. It contains info which can be used for identity theft and they don't need it."

The manager insisted. Hall stuck to her guns, and asked to speak to the doctor. But the doctor refused to come out, and the manager said Hall wouldn't be treated unless they made a copy of her license.

Hall left and found a different doctor.

Hall's husband Kenneth thought she made a smart choice.

"In the case of seniors like me, the doctor already has the Social Security number as it appears on the Medicare card, but they demand the driver's license as well?" Kenneth Hall said. "They have a right to view it to be sure the picture matches the presenter, but banks and doctors regularly insist on making a 'Xerox' copy."

QUIZ: Can you pass the N.J. driver's license exam?

Additional Product Support Information, Driving Records

Indeed, driver's licenses have personal information that could be used for nefarious purposes if the info falls into the wrong hands.

And if a paper copy isn't bad enough, some businesses purchase scanners that allow the user to swipe a license, giving the swiper a digital record of your personal information.

One of the many apps for sale that can scan driver's license bar codes.iPhone App Store

Anyone can buy these scanners.

And anyone with a smart phone can download an app that can perform the same scan.

So exactly what can be found on your license's two bar codes?

"The information that appears on the front of the document is on the bar code to allow law enforcement to verify the license quickly and accurately," MVC spokeswoman Mairin Bellack said in an email.

That would mean your name, address, height, weight, birth date, license number and signature.

We asked about the second bar code — the vertical one on the back of your license — but MVC wouldn't only say it's for "internal MVC inventory control use."

"N.J.'s driver's license is a secure document with many security features," Bellack said. "The more information that is given out, the less secure the document becomes."

Okay.

We asked MVC about the scanners.

"It is not realistic for the MVC to 'guess' what the technology of scanners that may be 'on the market' are capable of reading," Bellack said. "The MVC does not utilize license scanners and does not provide any type of assistance for their development."

Okay again.

"It is no surprise that the MVC is being close-lipped on the data captured on the bar codes," said Adam Levin, former head of the state's Division of Consumer Affairs and author of "Swiped: What Identity Thieves Do--And How to Stop Them." "Even if the information is being used for internal purposes, consumers have a right to know."

To hopefully learn more, we submitted an Open Public Records Act for specifics about what's on the bar codes. We'll let you know what we learn.

We then tried to get answers for another Bamboozled reader who had concerns about MVC's use of Social Security numbers.

Howard Fischer, a reader who wanted to know if there were consequences for not sharing a Social Security number when renewing a license or registration in New Jersey.Alexandra Pais/for NJ Advance Media

"License and registration renewals in New Jersey still require [a Social Security number]," reader Howard Fischer said. "Why does the NJMVC need Social Security numbers? Can that entry be left blank without repercussions?"

We asked MVC what happens if a Jersey driver refuses to provide a Social Security number, even if the Social Security number is already in the MVC system.

Bellack said the submission of Social Security numbers is required by law.

"The number will be used to prevent errors, enforce federal and state laws and assist in the collection of motor vehicle fees," the MVC spokeswoman said.

That didn't answer the question of what happens to a driver who refuses. So we asked again.

And we got the same non-answer answer given above.

MORE ON THE BAR CODES

Back to those bar codes.

While New Jersey's licenses have lots of protection features, exactly what third parties do with scanned information is iffy.

The federal Driver Privacy Protection Act (DPPA) prohibits the disclosure of personal information without the express consent of the license holder, with certain exceptions, said Mitch Feather of Creative Associates, a Madison-based cybersecurity and infrastructure consulting firm.

Part of the law allows swiping "for use in the normal course of business by a legitimate business or its agents, employees, or contractors, but only to verify the accuracy of personal information."

For example, Feather said, business that sell alcohol or tobacco may use license information for age verification. Those who swipe will make sure the birth date on the front of the license hasn't been tampered with and matches the information on the bar code.

"It is not illegal for businesses to scan your license in order to verify your age or check for fraud, but they are not supposed to collect and market this data," Levin said.

A couple of states have banned the storage of swiped information -- called warehousing -- except in certain circumstances. New Jersey is not one of them.

In 2011, New Jersey introduced the Enhanced Drivers License (EDL) to comply with a different federal law that mandates that states create more stringent ID cards, Feather said. Like other states' EDLs, New Jersey's has a number of security features - some obvious and some not so obvious.

"So as to not be self-defeating, New Jersey will - understandably - not fully disclose all of the security features," Mitchell said.

The two bar codes are a feature of the EDL. The strip along the short edge of the license is a called a one-dimensional bar code, or 1D bar code, Feather said. The strip along the long edge of the driver's license is called a two-dimensional bar code, or 2D.

Feather said the 2D bar code is the one that holds the same information as the front of your license. What's on the 1D bar code is unknown.

As one point of solace for protection-concerned citizens, New Jersey does not include Social Security numbers in the 2D bar code, Feather said.

PROTECT YOURSELF

This all means that means consumers are left with the responsibility of checking up on what every company that asks for a swipe does with the information.

We did a little checking.

Pharmacies are required by law to scan your license for certain sales.

"The only time we scan is when anyone purchases a pseudoephedrine product, which is a precursor ingredient for the making of meth and is required by law," said Mike DeAngelis, a spokesman for CVS/pharmacy.

He said the scan is connected to a database called MethCheck, which runs the bar code on the back of a state-issued identification to make sure the buyer hasn't purchased more than the allowable maximum, which is 9 grams in a 30-day period.

CVS/pharmacy said it doesn't store the information, but simply gets a ping back from the database with a "yes" or "no" for the customer to make the purchase.

Rite Aid does the same kind of scan, but it said it does collect the information.

We asked how the info is stored, and a spokeswoman said, "Because of the confidential and proprietary nature of this information, we are unable to disclose specifics, but the information is securely stored and maintained."

Other businesses require a license scan when a consumer makes a return.

Bamboozled took a look at that a few years ago, and we found it's part of a system used by many retailers to track "serial returners." You know, customers who purchase stuff, use it temporarily and then try to return the item.

"Stores like Target, Best Buy and Victoria's Secret scan customers' driver's licenses stating that it is part of their return policy to prevent fraudulent returns and to create customer `return profiles,'" Levin said. "Unfortunately, it doesn't stop there. The information that is captured from the magnetic strip is collected and stored in their databases."

He said retailers should not have a "secret database" that stores your customer information without your consent, calling it a "violation of your privacy."

We reached out to Best Buy, Victoria's Secret and Walmart to ask: Do they store the scanned information? How do they keep it secure? Who has access to it? Exactly what information are they getting from the scan?

None of the companies responded.

What's the big secret?

As a consumer, ask questions, and be cautious.

Feather said when merchants ask to scan his license for what he'd consider a less-than-obvious reason, he questions them about why they need it before turning it over.

If you do, be prepared for some interesting responses and consequences, he said, such as retailers who turn you away.

Levin said consumers must be vigilant and discerning in handing over their licenses and allowing them to be swiped.

"Since New Jersey has a policy against allowing drivers to smile and/or show teeth on drivers license pictures in order to prevent fraud, why should you have to grin and bear it when it comes to having your personal data swiped at local stores?" he said. "If it is not absolutely required, just say `no.'"

Big Brother is watching, for sure. And we're not sure we have a complaint about that. What we do have a problem with is when the watchers aren't being forthright and transparent about when they scan, why they scan, what information they get from the scan and how they secure that information.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What should I do as my w-2 was stolen?
A$A$A
A: I applaud you being proactive. I asked the Internal Revenue Service to weigh in. You should also file a police report, just to get that on the record, the IRS said. You could also file a report with the Federal Trade Commission.

After you've filed the police report, the IRS said, you should file IRS Form 14039, which is an Identity Theft Affidavit. You can print the form and mail it or fax it, according to the instructions.

You would check one of two boxes:

1. Federal tax records affected and I am a victim of identity theft.

OR

2. Federal tax records not affected and I am a victim of identity theft, or an event has affected/compromised my personal information placing me at-risk to be a future victim of identity theft.

You would fall into the second category -- your personal information has been compromised and places you at risk.

After that, "certain tax-related identity theft victims will be placed into the Identity Protection PIN program and annually receive a new, six-digit IP PIN that must be entered on the tax return," the IRS said. "The IP PIN adds an extra layer of identity protection. Some taxpayers will be given the option of getting an IP PIN, using the IRS.gov/getanippintool."

If, when it's time to file your tax return, your electronic return is rejected because a return has already been filed or whatever, then go ahead and file it by mail, the IRS said.

For more information on the tax side, go to

https://www.irs.gov/individuals/...

I'd recommend a few other things:

Watch out for suspicious emails or phone calls that try to trick you into disclosing personal information, based on already having some information about you that may have been disclosed as part of this incident. Whoever calls may know your name or address or all of your information.Consider that someone may call you posing as the IRS or even local law enforcement.Stores, banks and investigators will never contact you out of sky blue and ask for personal information such as account numbers, Social Security numbers, passwords, etc. Never. Ever. And they'll never contact you by email and ask you to change your password by clicking on an unknown link. Don't click on links or reply with any information. Never. Ever. If someone contacts you, call them back at a trusted phone number you look up independently.

Consider you could see a broader attack on your identity. Contact your banks and investment accounts first, then credit cards and other types of financial accounts. Tell them your Social Security number and other personal information were compromised in the mail. Don't tell them the details. They don't care. Ask whether you can put additional verbal passwords on your accounts that don't involve any public record data such as your date of birth. We're talking about PINs or random words (like oak tree or paint brush). You want to make sure someone can't access your accounts for wire transfers or to change your contact information without your secret password.

Monitor your primary bank accounts, credit cards, investments, etc., more carefully than ever. Every week is good. Every day is better. Remember the credit freeze doesn't prevent fraud with existing accounts, which constitutes 88 percent of identity theft.

Watch out for anything odd -- a medical explanation of benefits for a service you didn't have or from a provider you don't recognize, a rejection letter for an account you didn't apply for, a missing credit card statement that is more than a few days late. These could be signs of identity theft.

Check your credit reports regularly. You're entitled to one free credit report per year from each of the three major credit bureaus. Go to annualcreditreport.com or call 1-877-322-8228. Or you can fill out a paper request and mail it to: Annual Credit Report Request Service, P.O. Box 105281, Atlanta, Georgia 30348-5281. You'll be asked to provide your name, address, Social Security number, date of birth and which bureau you want a report from (Equifax, TransUnion or Experian).Best advice: Order a credit report from one of the bureaus every four months.

Put every type of protection you can on your financial accounts. If you can use two passwords, do it. If you can require codes to be sent to your phone in order for you to log in, do it. If you can request email or text alerts for purchases or bank account withdrawals or changes to your contact information, then do it. While you're at it, make sure that companies you do business with have all of your current contact information in their files.

Watch out for anyone who calls you and claims to be calling about an existing relationship or account you have. Never talk to them. Always hang up and call back using the number on the back of your credit card or your bank statement or that you look up independently online.This same warning applies to anyone who calls you and claims to be from Microsoft or Apple support and says you have a problem with your computer and the caller needs access to your computer to fix it. Just don't. Ever. Just hang up without saying bye.

Be more cautious about anything you post on social media -- Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, etc. You can provide thieves with a lot of information without meaning to. This is especially troubling if you post the name of your sister and photos of your cat online, and then use that information as the answers for security questions for bank accounts.
A$A$A
What can happen if someone steals my W-2 form? Can they steal my tax returns?
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
How can I obtain a drivers license number?
A$A$A
If you’re looking for your own driver’s license number, you may be able to find it on a cancelled check, a previous loan application, or some other paperwork that required you to provide your driver’s license number.

If you want to find your driver license number online you can use special service.

If you report a lost or missing driver’s license to the DMV, they should be able to give you your license number after you provide then with proper proof of your identification. They should also issue you a new driver’s license with a new number to prevent identity theft.

To find your nearest DMV office, please utilize our DMV Office Finder.

How do I find someone else’s driver’s license number?

In most states, it is illegal to obtain or search for someone else’s driver’s license number. There are companies that claim to offer this service, but be careful and read the fine print—there are reasons this information isn’t readily available.

Besides the obvious suggestion of going to local DMV office with your passport or birth certificate and some mail, there are several documents that you reasonably might have at home that might have your driver licence number on that you can look at:

Copy of a loan application ( not credit card, but an actual loan like mortgage)

Copy of documents submitted to school (college require proof of residency to provide in-state tution rate) / daycare ( if you have children)

Copy of your car registration / title

Copy of your car insurance application or even car insurance

Passport / TSA Pre-Check / Nexus application - might have a copy of your DL, if you used that.

If you pre-registered on an Airline website - they might have one.

I normally suggest to keep a scanned & xeroxed copy of all your important documents at home in a lockbox or safe, and at safe deposit box at a bank. You have one of those, right?

To obtain a copy of someone else's Driver Licenses is illegal in most states and countries.

You would have to go to your local DMV with the following papers. 1. Social Security Card 2. Birth certificate 3. Usually two pieces of mail which have been delivered to your current address.

These new regulations were put into effect by almost all states a few years after 9-1-1 to help prevent people from fraudulently getting a drivers license and also to help prevent identity theft.

Don't expect to walk into your DMV with no paperwork and expect them to just hand over another license because they have you picture on file.

The process of obtaining a driver’s license varies by how old you are and the state you live in. Adults have their own path, and teens must meet their state’s Graduated Driver Licensing (GDL) requirements.

•To learn how to get your adult driver's license (typically for applicants 18 years old and older), please visit our guide to Applying for a New License.

•For information about teen drivers—including permit requirements and driving restrictions—visit our Applying for a Teen License page.

If you’re looking for your own driver’s license number, you may be able to find it on a cancelled check, a previous loan application, or some other paperwork that required you to provide your driver’s license number.

If you want to find your driver license number online you can use special service.

If you report a lost or missing driver’s license to the DMV, they should be able to give you your license number after you provide then with proper proof of your identification. They should also issue you a new driver’s license with a new number to prevent identity theft.

This question and variations of it are popping up all over this site of late. The answer to this question is the same as it is to the other ones: If you have your drivers license in your possession, then you have your drivers license number. If you don’t, then taking a quick trip to your local DMV with identity paperwork will net you a new license with your license number upon it.

If you are trying find out OTHER people’s license numbers, questioner (which seems to be the gist of this and other similar questions) then there are a number of routes to do so. I’m not going to divulge any of them here as if you are too lazy or incompetent to think of them, then it wouldn’t be a priority to help you in that manner. Additionally, it’s likely that you are seeking such information for nefarious purposes meaning that it would be inadvisable to assist you anyway.

How do I get a driver’s license?

How do I check my driver’s license status?

The status of your driver’s license can fall under the following categories:

•Valid.

•Expired.

•Suspended.

•Revoked.

To lookup or find out the status of your driver’s license, you can either contact your local DMV office, or you can obtain a copy of your driver record online.

NOTE: Some, but not all, state DMV offices offer a free copy of your driver record. Contact your local DMV for specific information, or visit your state’s Driving Records page.

Not legally. But theoretically it is possible.

There are multiple databases that were stolen from various stores and organizations that contained all kinds of personal information including DL number. Reportedly they are available online on the darknet.

To go after you directly to try to locate your personal information, that person would need to be highly motivated. If they don't have a personal grudge against you, and you don't have lots of money in secret accounts online :-) , you are less likely to become a victim of Identity Theft. If you suspect that somebody has stolen your personal information, you should contact law enforcement, lawyer and financial institutions to let them know. Wouldn't be a bad idea to let your relatives and friends know as well.

Disclaimer: I'm not a lawyer - so none of this constitutes a legal advice. Your decisions are your own.

This verification allows you to check the status of credentials issued by DMV, including: non-driver identification, learner permit, driver license, commercial driver license, or endorsements. If your driving record is listed under a case number(case numbers begin with '300')this verification cannot be used.

The status check has a one day delay – the status reported is as of the date indicated.

For your protection, no personal information will be disclosed – You must enter your credential number correctly.

If you sent DMV a payment or document, allow ten business days from the date it is received for it to be processed.

You must physically carry a current and valid driver license to operate a motor vehicle. If you switched to a non-driver identification card while your license was suspended, you must have your license reissued prior to driving.

If you received advance notice of a pending suspension, disqualification, downgrade, or revocation, recheck your credential status after the date given in the notice to determine if the suspension is in effect.

Please enter your Driver License Number below. Social Security Number and/or Insurance update(s), if applicable, are available on the Driver License Check results page.

To access the driving history of your child under the age of 18, enter the teen's driver license number below. After we retrieve the record, you may enter the last four digits of the driver's Social Security Number and the date of birth to view the driving history.

When you check your license by entering the number above, if it shows "VALID" it simply indicates that the department has already received information and cleared your record. You may disregard any notice you received and print the response as your latest official receipt from this agency.

It is illegal to drive without a driver's license that shows your driver license number in your possession. Let us inform you of the steps to take in order to get your driver's license back―fast.

Alabama

Alaska

Arizona

Arkansas

California

Colorado

Connecticut

Delaware

Florida

Georgia

Hawaii

Idaho

Illinois

Indiana

Iowa

Kansas

Kentucky

Louisiana

Maine

Maryland

Massachusetts

Michigan

Minnesota

Mississippi

Missouri

Montana

Nebraska

Nevada

New Hampshire

New Jersey

New Mexico

New York

North Carolina

North Dakota

Ohio

Oklahoma

Oregon

Pennsylvania

Rhode Island

South Carolina

South Dakota

Tennessee

Texas

Utah

Vermont

Virginia

Washington

West Virginia

Wisconsin

Wyoming

Washington DC

There may be times when you are not sure if your driver’s license has been suspended. This is because notifications from the Department or Bureau of Motor Vehicles may not be sent out on time or perhaps you’ve been away from home. In any event, it is relatively easy to check and find out if your driver’s license is indeed suspended.

Order Your Driving Record Report

Your driving record is kept by the state government and provides information on the current status of your driver’s license and includes the following pieces of information.

– Status of Driver’s License

– Number of Traffic Accidents

– Points on Driving Record

– Traffic Violations, Convictions, and Fines

– DUI Public Records

The status of your driver’s license may be valid, suspended, or canceled. You can check with the following agencies that oversee the driving records of everyone in the state. You will need to see which of the following applies to your state.

– Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV)

– Secretary of State (SoS)

– Department of Public Safety (DPS)

– Department of Revenue (DoR)

– Motor Vehicle Division (MVD)

Usually, you can go to your state’s official government website and quickly find the department that oversees your driving record. Once you have done that, the next step is to see just how they dispense the information. In most states, the confidentiality of your driving record is such that simply getting a copy online may not be possible, so you will need to check first.

The Cost of Ordering Your Driving Record

You should take note that ordering your driver’s license status from the state will probably require a small fee. This is usually a processing fee so that the service can pay for itself. You can appear at the appropriate department in person, go online, or have your driving record sent to you through the mail.

You will want to beware of websites that claim they can check your driver’s license online for free. In fact, you should not go to any such website that makes this claim and instead either work through your state government website or call the appropriate agency and talk the staff member present. Otherwise, you run the risk of getting very little information and instead mostly face a sales pitch for products or services.

There are many reasons why you should check your driver’s license and driving record from time to time. While most people will do so to see if the latest ticket, accident or related incident has added points to their license or worse, caused a suspension, other reasons include checking your driving record against the policy rates of your insurance company.

Effects of Suspended Driver’s License

If you find that your driver’s license has been suspended, here are the following disadvantages;

– Can no longer drive a vehicle

– Higher insurance rates

– Fees and fines for reinstatement

– Fines and possible arrest if caught driving without a proper license

I wish you Good Luck.

This question and variations of it are popping up all over this site of late. The answer to this question is the same as it is to the other ones: If you have your drivers license in your possession, then you have your drivers license number. If you don’t, then taking a quick trip to your local DMV with identity paperwork will net you a new license with your license number upon it.

If you are trying find out OTHER people’s license numbers, questioner (which seems to be the gist of this and other similar questions) then there are a number of routes to do so. I’m not going to divulge any of them here as if you are too lazy or incompetent to think of them, then it wouldn’t be a priority to help you in that manner. Additionally, it’s likely that you are seeking such information for nefarious purposes meaning that it would be inadvisable to assist you anyway.

Driver's license information is public record, as is license plate information. Your name, driver's license number, and more are available to anyone who requests it from the DMV.

Your license plate number can also be used to look up who the car is registered to, at what address the car is registered, and more.
A$A$A
This question and variations of it are popping up all over this site of late. The answer to this question is the same as it is to the other ones: If you have your drivers license in your possession, then you have your drivers license number. If you don’t, then taking a quick trip to your local DMV with identity paperwork will net you a new license with your license number upon it.

If you are trying find out OTHER people’s license numbers, questioner (which seems to be the gist of this and other similar questions) then there are a number of routes to do so. I’m not going to divulge any of them here as if you are too lazy or incompetent to think of them, then it wouldn’t be a priority to help you in that manner. Additionally, it’s likely that you are seeking such information for nefarious purposes meaning that it would be inadvisable to assist you anyway.

How do I get a driver’s license?

The process of obtaining a driver’s license varies by how old you are and the state you live in. Adults have their own path, and teens must meet their state’s Graduated Driver Licensing (GDL) requirements.

•To learn how to get your adult driver's license (typically for applicants 18 years old and older), please visit our guide to Applying for a New License.

•For information about teen drivers—including permit requirements and driving restrictions—visit our Applying for a Teen License page.

How do I check my driver’s license status?

The status of your driver’s license can fall under the following categories:

•Valid.

•Expired.

•Suspended.

•Revoked.

To lookup or find out the status of your driver’s license, you can either contact your local DMV office, or you can obtain a copy of your driver record online.

NOTE: Some, but not all, state DMV offices offer a free copy of your driver record. Contact your local DMV for specific information, or visit your state’s Driving Records page.

Not legally. But theoretically it is possible.

There are multiple databases that were stolen from various stores and organizations that contained all kinds of personal information including DL number. Reportedly they are available online on the darknet.

To go after you directly to try to locate your personal information, that person would need to be highly motivated. If they don't have a personal grudge against you, and you don't have lots of money in secret accounts online :-) , you are less likely to become a victim of Identity Theft. If you suspect that somebody has stolen your personal information, you should contact law enforcement, lawyer and financial institutions to let them know. Wouldn't be a bad idea to let your relatives and friends know as well.

Disclaimer: I'm not a lawyer - so none of this constitutes a legal advice. Your decisions are your own.

This verification allows you to check the status of credentials issued by DMV, including: non-driver identification, learner permit, driver license, commercial driver license, or endorsements. If your driving record is listed under a case number(case numbers begin with '300')this verification cannot be used.

The status check has a one day delay – the status reported is as of the date indicated.

For your protection, no personal information will be disclosed – You must enter your credential number correctly.

If you sent DMV a payment or document, allow ten business days from the date it is received for it to be processed.

You must physically carry a current and valid driver license to operate a motor vehicle. If you switched to a non-driver identification card while your license was suspended, you must have your license reissued prior to driving.

If you received advance notice of a pending suspension, disqualification, downgrade, or revocation, recheck your credential status after the date given in the notice to determine if the suspension is in effect.

Please enter your Driver License Number below. Social Security Number and/or Insurance update(s), if applicable, are available on the Driver License Check results page.

To access the driving history of your child under the age of 18, enter the teen's driver license number below. After we retrieve the record, you may enter the last four digits of the driver's Social Security Number and the date of birth to view the driving history.

When you check your license by entering the number above, if it shows "VALID" it simply indicates that the department has already received information and cleared your record. You may disregard any notice you received and print the response as your latest official receipt from this agency.

It is illegal to drive without a driver's license that shows your driver license number in your possession. Let us inform you of the steps to take in order to get your driver's license back―fast.

Alabama

Alaska

Arizona

Arkansas

California

Colorado

Connecticut

Delaware

Florida

Georgia

Hawaii

Idaho

Illinois

Indiana

Iowa

Kansas

Kentucky

Louisiana

Maine

Maryland

Massachusetts

Michigan

Minnesota

Mississippi

Missouri

Montana

Nebraska

Nevada

New Hampshire

New Jersey

New Mexico

New York

North Carolina

North Dakota

Ohio

Oklahoma

Oregon

Pennsylvania

Rhode Island

South Carolina

South Dakota

Tennessee

Texas

Utah

Vermont

Virginia

Washington

West Virginia

Wisconsin

Wyoming

Washington DC
A$A$A
Whether you’re a seasoned motorist or just got your driver’s license last month, mistakes – to the tune of traffic tickets and car accidents – happen.

However, mistakes bring consequences, and in the driving world, consequences affect your driving privileges.

Thus, it’s vital to stay on top of your license status, and you can do that by order a copy of your driving record.

Your driving record details:

1. Your license status, meaning whether you’re good to go or have a suspended license.

2. Information about traffic tickets you’ve gotten within the past certain number of years (often three or five; some states provide 10-year histories).

3. How many, if any, points you’ve accumulated due to traffic tickets, auto accidents, and other driving-related violations. Based on your state’s point system, you’ll lose your driving privileges after accumulating a certain number of points.

Not all driving record information is negative, though. Driving records also detail your driver license class and any endorsements you have.

To find drivers license number without the actual license online you also can use one popular service or go to DMV office in your state.

Some states require drivers to go into their local branch and:

1. Present photo identification (your driver’s license!).

2. Complete a driving record application.

3. Pay a fee.

Other states allow drivers to apply for their records by mail, by telephone, or through their state’s online branch.

To lookup or find out the status of your driver’s license, you can either dmv.orgcontact your local DMV office.

Privacy laws have made it tough to replace a lost drivers license, or get privacy protected data, even for yourself.

The best bet is to take any other id you have available, ALONG WITH YOUR BIRTH CERTIFICATE, directly to the closest DMV office to your home or job.

If you don’t have birth certificate , NOW is the time to start on the job of getting one, which is apt to take a while. Sooner or later you are apt to need it in a hurry.

You MIGHT be able to find it online, but I would suggest a trip to your local DMV office. They can help you with any forms you need, and can often save you several trips by doing so. If you have any other photo ID, I would strongly suggest taking it with you. A birth certificate is another wise item to take in with you. If you know a police officer well enough to ask a favor, he or she might be able to get your license number for you with less hassle.

Go to your dmv. apply for duplicate license or just wait in line long enough to ask for your license number. Make sure you have alternative identifications with you.

Go to your bank. Ask them if they have that info on file or if you can wade through your old processed checks.

Call your insurance company. Surely they have it on file.

You may be able to find it is some states by going to the DMV website but you will have to provide a lot of information.

It is getting rare to find websites like this due to the Real ID act which has much tighter security than before.

If that doesn't work you can go to your DMV but must have your birth certificate, social security card and two pieces of mail that have been delivered to your address.

There may be a small fee just to get your number but if your lost your license or it was stolen you should make a police report and take it with you to the DMV. They usually waive the fee if this is the case.

If you want a new license you will have to pay the applicable fee.

Sigh…

This question and variations of it are popping up all over this site of late. The answer to this question is the same as it is to the other ones: If you have your drivers license in your possession, then you have your drivers license number. If you don’t, then taking a quick trip to your local DMV with identity paperwork will net you a new license with your license number upon it.

If you are trying find out OTHER people’s license numbers, questioner (which seems to be the gist of this and other similar questions) then there are a number of routes to do so. I’m not going to divulge any of them here as if you are too lazy or incompetent to think of them, then it wouldn’t be a priority to help you in that manner. Additionally, it’s likely that you are seeking such information for nefarious purposes meaning that it would be inadvisable to assist you anyway.

Not legally. But theoretically it is possible.

There are multiple databases that were stolen from various stores and organizations that contained all kinds of personal information including DL number. Reportedly they are available online on the darknet.

To go after you directly to try to locate your personal information, that person would need to be highly motivated. If they don't have a personal grudge against you, and you don't have lots of money in secret accounts online :-) , you are less likely to become a victim of Identity Theft. If you suspect that somebody has stolen your personal information, you should contact law enforcement, lawyer and financial institutions to let them know. Wouldn't be a bad idea to let your relatives and friends know as well.

Disclaimer: I'm not a lawyer - so none of this constitutes a legal advice. Your decisions are your own.
A$A$A
At best, losing your driver’s license is a major hassle. But you can minimize the chances of reaching full-on disaster with these urgent must-dos. Whether your license is lost or stolen, you just can’t afford to take any chances.

You can try to find driver's license number if you lost your driver's license by using special services.

1) Act Fast

The quicker you respond the better. Calmly retrace your steps and check all the usual license-swallowing suspects:

Laundry basket.

Pockets of the clothing you wore when you last had it.

Washing machine/dryer.

Car (inside and out, console, in, under and around seats).

Between couch cushions.

If you still come up empty, now is the time to quickly react as if someone stole your driver’s license.

2) Assess What’s Missing

A lost driver’s license is one thing, but a lost wallet can mean a whole new world of hurt. If anyone had access to your information, and you aren’t a member of an identification theft protection service such as LifeLock, you need to immediately notify:

Your bank(s).

Your credit card companies.

Your health insurance provider.

The SSA (if your Social Security card was in your wallet).

3) Know What’s at Risk

With the info on your driver’s license, a crook can clobber your credit or start you down the path to financial ruin by:

Draining your bank accounts.

Opening new credit card accounts.

Taking out loans in your name.

Racking up utility and medical bills.

Unfortunately, identity theft can mean more than a few fraudulent charges. ID forgers can also easily swap your photo and start using your license as their own. Danger arises when they get caught engaging in illegal activity and present your driver’s license as their own to law enforcement.

You can try to find driver's license number if you lost your driver's license by using special services.

4) Report the Loss to the Police

Filing a police report creates a paper trail. This helps prove to credit card companies, banks, and even law enforcement that recent activity such as fraudulent charges on your credit card or bank account or illegal misconduct was the work of identity thieves. You should:

Find the quickest way to file a police report—online, in person, over the phone.

Be as specific as possible. Small details that don’t seem like a big deal now could turn out to be valuable info later.

Obtain a copy of the report for yourself.

5) Report the Loss to Your ID Theft Protection Service

Immediately contact your identity theft protection service so it can:

Place fraud alerts.

Freeze your credit report.

And then closely watch your financial accounts.

If you aren’t already a member of an Identity Theft Protection Company, it’s never too late to inquire. Companies such as LifeLock take an aggressive and proactive approach to protecting your identity before you’ve lost your driver’s license or wallet. LifeLock institutes its 5 Points of Protection that include:

Monitoring your identity for theft.

Scanning for identity threats.

Responding to identity theft.

Tracking your credit score.

And a $1 million guarantee.

Typically, credit-monitoring services have a waiting period before enrolling you as a member. If you dropped the ball this time around, don't put yourself at further risk down the road. Enroll NOW.

6) Notify the State DMV

Contact the nearest DMV branch to report your lost driver’s license. The State might flag your license number in case another driver gets pulled over by law enforcement and presents your driver’s license as his own. Often times a clerk will only suggest that you immediately apply for a duplicate, but it doesn’t hurt to ask about a database the DMV shares with the police.

You can try to find driver's license number if you lost your driver's license by using special services.

7) Replace Your Lost Driver’s License

Depending on when your current driver’s license expires, you might have the option to renew your driver's license versus applying for a duplicate. This might be the easier route considering some states offer online license renewal. First, obtain a copy of your driving record to determine the current status of your driver’s license and check when it expires. It’s also a good idea to check your driving record periodically to ensure someone isn’t getting traffic tickets and racking up points under your name.

If renewal isn’t an option, you’ll likely have to apply for your replacement in person. Before you scramble to the DMV, be sure you:

Collect all the required documents and acceptable forms of identification.

Have a form of payment accepted by the DMV. Cash might not pose a problem—unless of course you also lost your debit and credit cards, too.

Get a ride.

8) Drive Nowhere without Your Driver’s License

It’s illegal to drive without a valid driver’s license on your person. This makes applying for a replacement a little tricky. But don’t risk getting a traffic ticket on top of dealing with everything else. Citations mean added points on your driving record and a potential increase in your auto insurance rates. You might be able to use your driving record as proof of valid licensure until you renew or replace your lost license. But check with the DMV or local law enforcement first.

9) Watch for the Signs of Identity Theft

Channel your inner Magnum P.I. and begin keeping a close watch for anything out of the ordinary. Keep the risks listed above in mind, and:

Periodically run a criminal background check on yourself to see if warrants pop up.

Monitor your credit score by periodically reviewing your credit report.

Answer your phone when numbers you don't recognize pop up on your caller ID. It could be a creditor or collection agency calling to collect on an account that ID thieves fraudulently created.

You can try to find driver's license number if you lost your driver's license by using special services.
A$A$A
If you are in any US state go to the local Department of Motor Vehicles and get a drivers license, it will have a license number on it. Please realize testing IS REQUIRED! You also need to provide a vehicle for your driving test DO NOT DRIVE IT WITHOUT A LICENSE, have a friend drive it and you to the DMV.

In California and I assume most other States you can go to the DMV to get an ID card. Same as a driver’s license (with number) but it does not allow you to drive a vehicle. Please contact your local DMV for details and requirements.

Other countries I don’t know about.

Jim Y
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
My Social Security Number Was Stolen – Now What Do I Do?
A$A$A
My Social Security Number Was Stolen – Now What Do I Do? - GeorgetteMillerLaw.com

Every day, database security breaches occur every day and normally involve the loss or theft of Social Security numbers to the point that millions throughout the country may have been compromised.

Many states have adopted laws that require businesses to notify consumers when a data breach has occurred. In addition, financial institutions covered by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, a federal law designed to protect consumers, must adopt procedures that safeguard data and they must notify customers when data has been accessed in an unauthorized manner.

For many consumers, receiving notification that their Social Security number has been stolen can be frightening and confusing. If this has happened to you, there is every possibility you are concerned about your identity and want to know what your next steps should be.

Enroll in Identity Theft Protection

The most common criminal activity thieves engage in when they obtain stolen Social Security information is to use the number to open credit in the name of the person’s whose card was stolen.

In some cases, the company or financial institution may offer such protection on a limited basis for free as an apology to the consumer for the data breach. If this is the case, accept the free offer, but continue to monitor your credit file as identity-theft protection is not foolproof.

Place a Fraud Alert on Your Credit File

As a consumer, you have the right to request the three credit bureaus to place a 90-day fraud alert on your file.

This will require anyone who attempts to open a new account using your Social Security number to take additional steps, such as providing photo identification when opening accounts. You can actually notify just one of the bureaus and they will take care of notifying the other two.

Place a Security Freeze on Your Credit File

Placing a security freeze on your credit file prevents the credit bureaus from giving out any information without your express permission.

Although this can be frustrating when you are legitimately attempting to get credit, it keeps thieves from using your credit fraudulently.

Contact the Social Security Administration

Even if you are not collecting benefits, you should notify the Social Security Administration of the theft. There have been recent reports of illegal immigrants using stolen Social Security information to obtain work papers and other documents.

These actions will not appear on your credit report, but should the person using your information be arrested, your Social Security number may be used as part of the police report, causing significant problems for you in the future. In addition, you should report the theft to the Internal Revenue Service and to the Internet Crime Complaint Center.

This may prevent the thief from using your Social Security number to file fraudulent tax returns or get a job using your number. If someone obtains employment using your number, you could face additional tax penalties as it will appear as if you are not claiming all the income you earned.
E$E$E

