Q$Q$Q
What are current 7/11 customary closing & underwriting costs for a 30 yr mortgage refi in California?  Categories:  Loan Origination Fees, Processing Fees, Underwriting Fees, Title Svce (settlement of closing fees), Lender's Title Ins, recording fees
A$A$A
No loan origination fees, und rewriting and processing should be $900-1400, escrow fee for a refinance should be about $500, recording fees should be about $100-150. Your title policy fee depends on the loan amount. If you google "California title policy calculator", you'll see tons of options to get that estimated cost
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
How much has the process of leaving the EU (not including the divorce settlement) cost the UK taxpayer so far? How much will it finally cost?
A$A$A
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
How could Blockchain technology change Finance?
A$A$A
The biggest problem banks have at this moment in time is with the international finance market. The process of transfer funds from country to country is very bogged down and costly.

Currently, banks in a specific country use a secured database in order to store transactions performed by people within that country. If a bank wishes to move funds or make transactions to a place or branch of the bank elsewhere outside of the country, databases must be opened and closed at both ends to do this successfully. To complete this process is costly and time consuming, sometimes taking several days.

This is where Blockchain technology would come in and improve efficiency. Using Blockchain would require no need to open and close the secured databases between the two reference points of the transaction. Any of the banks branches worldwide could complete transactions at the click of a button.

Banks and institutions would be able to move funds worldwide much quicker, while also being able to take better advantage of foreign exchange rates. Another benefit of the Blockchain is that the share buying and selling in financial trading would be sped up and the approval processes by institutions involved would not be needed anymore. This would create shorter settlement processes and greater trading accuracy.

A few more ways Blockchain would make the financial markets and institutions more efficient is the use of smart contracts. Commercial transactions and terms can be automatically agreed upon, enforcing all of the party’s obligations in the contract, getting rid of middlemen. Another improvement would be the improvement of online identity. With Blockchain, users are able to identify themselves how they want and who will be informed of this.

There is a multitude of ways that Blockchain technology will help improve the financial markets and institutions, these are just a few. As the technology advances and adoptions are made the sky is the limit to what can happen.

Be sure to follow CoinCoach Media (@coincoachmedia) on Instagram for all of your daily cryptocurrency news.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What are some of the most intelligent crimes committed in India?
A$A$A
I am amused that no one mentioned Mr Mithilesh Kumar Srivastava, better known as Natwarlal (1912-2009), was a noted Indian Con Man known for having repeatedly "sold" the Taj Mahal, the Red Fort, and the Rashtrapati Bhavan and also the Parliament House of India along with its 545 sitting members (funniest part of all). He was a living-legend in his lifetime and a legend even after his death. He is also said to have cheated number of industrialists including the Tatas, the Birlas and also Dhirubhai Ambani taking from them huge money in cash, posing as social worker or needy person. Natwarlal was wanted in more than 100 cases and he was wanted by 8 states police and was sentenced to 113 years in prison. However, he made daring escapes from different jails eight times in his life.

Natwarlal was arrested nine times but every time was able to break out of jail and run away. The last time he was arrested was in 1996 and was 84 years old at that time. But he managed to again give the police a slip and was last seen by authorities on June 24, 1996

Natwarlal, the man who forged President Rajendra Prasad's signature, sold the Taj Mahal and took money for the Red Fort will soon have his statue erected in his native Bihar village. Cops, of course, aren't smiling.

According to his lawyer Nandlal Jaiswal, Natwarlal died in 2009 at the age of 97. But the conman's younger brother Ganga Prasad Srivastava claims to have cremated him in 1996. He managed to dupe people even in his death

Devinder Singh AKA BUNTY CHOR

A compulsive thief, Devinder Singh aka Bunty's exploits border on the audacious usually. The super thief is a class nine dropout and he began his life of notoriety in 1993 when he was arrested in New Delhi but gave police the slip.

Bunty is reported to have committed over 500 burglaries with impunity across the country. From Delhi to Bangalore, Chennai and Mumbai, almost all the big cities have been privy to his silken craft. He is a master escape artist, giving the police the slip in Delhi, Chennai and Chandigarh after being captured.

The one thing that helped Bunty pull off his audacious robberies was how he tamed dogs, ensuring they hardly came in the way of him pulling one daring theft after other. While Bunty was not very picky about what he stole, he did have a weakness for fancy cars and luxury watches.

He was known to be a compulsive womaniser.

Dibakar Benerjee's movie Oye Lucky, Lucky Oye starring Abhay Deol was reportedly based on his life. In the fourth season of reality TV show Bigg Boss Bunty was one of the contestants.
A$A$A
I'm really surprised to see no one has mentioned about the "Vodafone Essar Court Case" !!

It is strongly believed that Our Supreme Court let a Massive Tax Evasion scam off the hook !!

Before going into the case, lets know some facts that will helps us to understand better !

Vodafone - UK based Telecom company.

Hutch - Hong-Kong based company.

Hutchison Essar Ltd. (HEL)- India based company

CGP Investments Holdings Ltd - Cayman Island based company, has 67% stakes in Hutch-Essar India.

( CGP is owned by Hutch, Hong-Kong )

Capital Gains Tax :

Tax assessed on selling Capital Assets are called Capital Gains Tax – These may be Long Term Capital Gains - Assets sold after 36 months Or

Short Term Capital Gains - Assets sold before 36 months

Shares of a company also come under Capital Gains Tax. But there is different time-duration for them (12 months)

Here comes the story,

December 2006: Hong Kong

Hutchison Telecommunication International Ltd wanted to sell Hutchison Essar Limited (HEL).

Instead of selling HEL directly, they decided to sell CGP Investments Holdings Ltd, located in Cayman ( CGP holds 67% in HEL (India) ). Since Cayman Island is a Tax Haven, they don’t have to pay Capital Gains Tax.

Vodafone (UK) came forward and bought CGP holdings Ltd from Cayman Island ($ 11-billion). Vodafone (buyer) should have deducted that tax money from its total payment and paid the tax to Indian Government.

March 2007, Mumbai

Income Tax Dept of India sent a notice to Vodafone to pay Rs. 12000 crores under capital gains tax since they bought an Indian Company HEL (Hutch Essar Ltd) for 11 billion dollars.

But Vodafone refused to pay the tax and filed a writ petition in the Bombay High Court, challenging the jurisdiction of the tax authorities in the matter.

It also renamed HEL (Hutchison Essar limited) to VEL (Vodafone Essar Limited)

Sept 2010, Bombay

The case was taken up by Bombay High Court. The court found that the vodafone's act was perceived to be mala fide and it directed them to pay the Capital Gains Tax.

Vodafone again denied to pay the tax and subsequently filed an appeal to the Supreme-court.

In Supreme Court, Vodafone argued that it only purchased CGP Investments Holdings Ltd (A Cayman Island company from Hutch Hongkong) .

But Cayman Island company happens to have 67% shares of Hutch Essar ltd (HEL, India). And thus it only have “Shares” of HEL. It did not purchase any assets like trucks, buildings or mobile towers from the HEL (India).

So where is the capital and where are the gains? It is an elementary principle of company law that ownership of shares in a company does not automatically mean ownership of the assets of the company.

(For an example - an individual who owns 45 per cent share capital does not own 45 of that company’s assets. The assets belong to that company which is a separate legal entity.)

Since it didn't receive any ‘Capital Asset’ from the Indian company, it cannot be taxed for capital gains!

But IT Dept argued that, Vodafone purchased the shares of an Indian company. According to Indian law, capital gains tax applies to sell of shares!

Vodafone defended that by saying, " This share-purchase took place in Cayman’s island, between two Non-Indian companies. They don’t have any capital gains tax there. So IT Dept can't hold them responsible for paying Capital Gains Tax in India.

They also contended that IT Dept doesn’t have any jurisdiction over this matter!

(For an example -Lets assume that ICICI Bank shares are listed in the US Stock exchange. As a US citizen, If anyone can own some shares.

If they sell them and make a profit, should they be made liable to pay Capital Gains Tax in India, U.K. and other countries, where ICICI Bank holds Assets? )

January 2012 SC Verdict:

The Supreme Court ruled in Vodafone's favour in a landmark judgement. It said that the government cannot tax a deal between two foreign entities, even if the transaction includes an Indian asset.

The demand of nearly 12,000 crore by way of capital gains tax, would amount to imposing capital punishment for capital investment, since it lacks authority of law and therefore stands squashed.

And thus the Vodafone case has resulted in a loss of several thousands to the exchequer and the Supreme Court has blessed this massive tax evasion scam !!

Finally Government amended the Income Tax Act Retrospectively and made sure that any company in similar circumstances is not able to avoid tax by operating out of tax heavens.

Edit 1 :

Some people have opined that it was merely a case of tax avoidance and supreme court followed the rule of the law.

Well, One can easily understand that this was a convoluted transaction, and the Bombay High Court saw through the subterfuge.

One wishes the apex court too had seen through the trick especially in the light of its own famous, landmark and salutary judgment in McDowell and Co Ltd’s case way back in 1985 -- “Tax planning should not degenerate into tax avoidance through subterfuges”

Sources :

Vodafone Wins Tax Case in India

Vodafone wins transfer pricing tax dispute case

Vodafone Essar Case: Capital Gains Tax Meaning, Reasons, Timeline, Implications, explained - Mrunal

Images: Google
A$A$A
Intelligent crimes are the ones that go unnoticed/un cracked.

Dawood Ibraham, The real Don, a true genius has many such tactics up his sleeves. Lets see one of them.  ( This strategy was let out by the men involved, not cracked by any security agencies)

Scenario :

An imported item of very high value has arrived at the port, and bears its consignment number. say '123'

Dawood's men, would go change it to a number that doesn't exist in the consignment records. say '69' and hide it somewhere inside the port itself.

Now, when the delivery time comes, Consignment 123, will be missing.

Officials will report the consignment 123 as 'Lost in Transit'

The importer claims insurance, gets 100% refund.

Now, Dawood's men would contact the original importer and offer him the same item at half its price.

You may think the importer may cry foul play. But think about it. The importer has already got a 100% refund for his item, if he accepts Dawood's offer. that's 50% discount for him. ( Of course, the item would not be accounted for this time, but hey this is/was India :P ). And that's exactly what the importer does.

Lets do the math.

Dawood and the importer makes 50% of the total value each.

You may think Insurance company is making a loss. But only a small fraction of insurance policies are claimed generally, this would make hardly any difference to their profits.

Edit:

I earlier mentioned that the Consignment was kept at the same place even after changing its name, Thanks to Devender Punia for pointing the flaw in that.

Source:

Dongri To Dubai: Six Decades of The Mumbai Mafia -
A$A$A
Crooks, thieves, burglars, swindlers. Call them what you want. Like any other country in the world, India has its fair share. But as it is in any calling, there are a few whose exploits have lifted them above the crowd. These master thieves have carved themselves their own little exclusive corner in the thieving world. There's no two ways about it, these guys (and gal) were the best in the business:

1. Mithilesh Kumar Srivastava A.K.A. Natwarlal

This man was truly a performer. In a career spanning almost a century, Natwarlal used over 50 disguises and aliases to con, lie and cheat his way into bank accounts of hundreds of businessmen and industrialists. He famously managed to sell the Taj Mahal, the Red Fort and Rashtrapati Bhavan. More than once. Even after his arrest, he wasn't done. In 1996, while he was being taken to AIIMS, he managed to give the police the slip and was never seen again. Just to clarify, this guy was 84 when he did this. Legend.

2. Devender Singh - Bunty Chor

This guy didn't restrict himself to one particular city. From Delhi to Bangalore, Chennai to Mumbai, this guy has been there and done that. Hardly the most picky thief, Bunty did have a particular weakness for fancy cars and luxury watches. And he was a master escape artist as well. He was able to escape his captors with as much ease as he whisked away with people's belongings. With over 500 reported burglaries, his crime spree was finally brought to a halt when he was captured by the police for good. But that just gave him an opportunity to diversify. The movie 'Oye Lucky, Lucky Oye' was based on his exploits and he was even called as a cast member for season 4 of the reality TV show Bigg Boss. But an honest life wasn't enough for him. The burglar soon returned to his thieving ways before finding himself behind bars.

3. Anjali Makan

Wanted for 2 counts of fraud, one count of counterfeiting and one count of forgery. Whereabouts: currently unknown. So reads the CBI Wanted Notice for Anjali Makan. Hardly anything is known about her, other than the fact that she managed to rob a bank of Rs. 1.5 crores! One of those one hit wonders, I guess. But what a hit it was.

4. Rustom Nagarwala

Sometimes, stealing money isn't all about grand and intricate plans, edge of the seat getaways or even a gun. Sometimes, it's as simple as making a phone call. And that's exactly what Rustom Sohrab Nagarwala did. On 21st May, 1971, the former Indian Army captain simply called Ved Prakash Malhotra, the head cashier of his State Bank of India branch. Nagarwala then imitated the Prime Minister, Indira Gandhi, claiming that the PM immediately needed 6 million rupees for a 'matter of national importance'. He then picked the money up from the branch and left. However, when Malhotra was later informed by the PMO of no such request, he alerted the police who found and arrested Nagarwala in less than a day. But still, 6 million with just a simple phone call! The 70s truly were a crazy time to be alive.

5. The Chelembra Bank Robbery

Usually the great heist movies draw their inspiration from real life events. But this was one instance where the players were reversed. On 31st December, 2007, bank officials of the Chelembra branch of the Bank of Kerala discovered that they had been robbed, with 80 kilograms of gold and 5 lakh rupees in cash stolen. But the interesting part wasn't what they stole, but how they stole it. The four member gang rented the restaurant below the 2nd floor bank and shut it down claiming they were undergoing a renovation. Meanwhile, they dug into the main vault from underneath and made off with their loot. When they were finally caught, the perpetrators confessed that their crime was inspired by the Bollywood film 'Dhoom'.

6. The Opera House Heist

Unsolved, uncaught and still at large. Nobody knows who pulled off this robbery. Now immortalized by Bollywood in the movie 'Special 26', a number of people were arrested during the initial investigation, but they all proved to be false leads. Whoever it was, this mastermind vanished with a cool 35 lakhs. Don't scoff at that amount, this was back in 1987. That's roughly the equivalent of 2 crores at today's rates.

You can never be too sure when the next infamous thief is born in our country. Their stories are indeed interesting to read

Feature Image: Phimchieurap and IBN
A$A$A
1987 Opera House heist - Wikipedia

When it comes to most intelligent crimes who can forget movie “SPECIAL 26” ?.

This act 1987 Opera House heist was so legendary that also inspired an Akshay Kumar movie, Special 26. The main difference between the two, however, was that there were four burglars in the film while in reality, the Opera House robbery was carried out by just one man, Mohan Singh.

On March 19th, 1987, Arvind Inamdar received an urgent phone call in the police headquarters in Mumbai. This call was about something fishy going on in Opera House, where most of the city's jewellery stores were located. A CBI raid had taken place at Tribhovandas Bhimji Zhaveri (TBZ), the most famous jeweller of the lot. They would come in, pull down the shutter, ask the staff and the customers to wait while they took a look at their registers. Standard practice. Here's where it becomes funny. Inamdar was told that they had taken off with a lot of jewellery. Something that's not common.

Things started getting even stranger when he finally reached the spot with his team. The entire 'CBI team' was still there. The only one missing, was their leader - Mohan Singh. It wasn't even a CBI team, they were just team members who thought they were getting a job! Mohan had met the team members after placing a classified ad in The Times Of India asking for "Dynamic Graduates for Intelligence Officers Post and Security Officers Post". Applicants were told to come to Taj Intercontinental between 10 am and 5 pm for an interview. Twenty six were finally selected, some of whom were already working in government jobs, looking for a better job. The next day, these twenty six were asked to report at 11 in the morning where Mohan would hand them their fake identity cards. An hour later, Singh got them boarded on a bus and took them for a 'trial raid'.

They must've passed with flying colours because it did look like an actual raid. Singh had then gone around the showcases picking up jewellery as 'samples'. They were placed in poly bags and stapled with slips showing a government seal.

Now for the exit. Singh told the staff to wait while he checked out another shop in the vicinity. He then got in the bus, went back to the hotel, checked out, and vanished. He left no trail behind. A crime so perfect, you end up respecting the culprit. Mohan Singh, or whatever his name might be, is yet to be caught.

Genius !!!
A$A$A
The man who sold TAJ MAHAL !!!!

Some people dream of rolling in money; of becoming famous. Now that’s another thing that most of us just ‘dream’ and don’t work towards realizing it. But for those who do, some become the Amitabh Bachchan of their own kind, and some others end up selling the Taj Mahal!

Natwarlal falls in the latter category. He duped people of crores of rupees with total ease and reserved a spot for himself in the history of India as the greatest ‘Conman’ to have ever lived. Now, we don’t wish to celebrate his endless list of frauds, but yeah,Meet India's most popular conman, Natwarlal, who even inspired a movie with the same name, starring Amitabh Bachchan. He stands out for his amusing ways and notoriousness in the history of Indian conmen. He is Mithilesh Kumar Srivastava in Bangra village of Siwan district, Bihar, Natwarlal was a lawyer by profession

This man sold TAJ MAHAL like we seen in the movie “Bunty aur Bubly”

He is expert in Prison Break like Michael Scofield (Those who watch Prison Break Series Ha Ha)

He had 100 cases charged on him and was wanted by the police of 8 states. He was arrested as many as 9 times but each time he managed to break away. The last notable escape he made was when he was 84, at New Delhi railway station, while he was being escorted by police from Kanpur jail to AIIMS in Delhi. The date was June 24, 1996, after which, he was never seen again.

Not only this he died twice

He conned people even in his death. It was in 2009 when his lawyer asked that the 100s of pending cases on Natwarlal be dropped claiming that the conman had passed away on July 25, 2009. Now, he probably would have, because of the evident age factor. But, his brother claimed to have cremated Natwarlal in 1996 itself, which was 13 years before the lawyer made his announcement. How did the conman revive to die again, is a question that remains put.

Source : 7 Super-Interesting Facts About Natwarlal, The Biggest Fraudster Of India
A$A$A
Stamp Paper Scam by Abdul Karim Telgi



Abdul Karim Telgi  is a convicted Indian counterfeiter. He earned money by printing counterfeit stamp paper in India. He cited Mr. Sharad Pawar, then the chief of NCP party and now a Central Government minister, name in relation to a 600 billion (US$10 billion) stamp-paper scam, during a narcoanalysis filmed by various Indian news channels, wherein he also mentioned Congress party Minister Chhagan Bhujbal.

Telgi moved to more complex counterfeiting when he began to counterfeit stamp paper. He appointed 300 people as agents who sold the fakes to bulk purchasers, including banks, insurance companies, and share-broking firms. The size of the scam was estimated to be more than 600 billion (US$10 billion). One aspect of the scandal that caused much concern was that it required the involvement of many police officers and other government employees including Nikhil Khotari. For example, one Assistant Police Investigator was found to have a net worth of over 1 billion (US$17 million), despite making a salary of only 9,000 (US$150) per month. On 17 January 2006, Telgi and several associates were sentenced to 30 years rigorous imprisonment. On 28 June 2007, Telgi was sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for 13 years for another aspect of the scandal. He was also fined 10 billion (US$170 million).
A$A$A
How did Ketan Parekh single-handedly run the bull on the share market?

“All my lifetime’s savings are gone. I don’t know how to feed my family.”

- A small investor hit by the Ketan Parekh scam, in April 2001.



THE CRASH THAT SHOOK THE NATION

The 176-point Sensex crash on March 1, 2001 came as a major shock for the Government of India, the stock markets and the investors alike. More so, as the Union budget tabled a day earlier had been acclaimed for its growth initiatives and had prompted a 177-point increase in the Sensex. This sudden crash in the stock markets prompted the Securities Exchange Board of India (SEBI) to launch immediate investigations into the volatility of stock markets. SEBI also decided to inspect the books of several brokers who were suspected of triggering the crash.

Meanwhile, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) ordered some banks to furnish data related to their capital market exposure. This was after media reports appeared regarding a private sector bank having exceeded its prudential norms of capital exposure, thereby contributing to the stock market volatility. The panic run on the bourses continued and the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) President Anand Rathi’s (Rathi) resignation added to the downfall. Rathi had to resign following allegations that he had used some privileged information, which contributed to the crash.The scam shook the investor’s confidence in the overall functioning of the stock markets. By the end of March 2001, at least eight people were reported to have committed suicide and hundreds of investors were driven to the brink of bankruptcy.

The scam opened up the debate over banks funding capital market operations and lending funds against collateral security. It also raised questions about the validity of dual control of co-operative banks. (Analysts pointed out that RBI was inspecting the accounts once in two years, which created ample scope for violation of rules.)

The first arrest in the scam was of the noted bull, Ketan Parekh (Ketan Parekh), on March 30, 2001, by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Soon, reports abounded as to how Ketan Parekh had single handedly caused one of the biggest scams in the history of Indian financial markets. He was charged with defrauding Bank of India (BoI) of about $30 million among other charges.

Ketan Parekh’s arrest was followed by yet another panic run on the bourses and the Sensex fell by 147 points. By this time, the scam had become the ‘talk of the nation,’ with intensive media coverage and unprecedented public outcry.

THE MAN WHO TRIGGERED THE CRASH

Ketan Parekh was a chartered accountant by profession and used to manage a family business, NH Securities started by his father. Known for maintaining a low profile, Ketan Parekh’s only dubious claim to fame was in 1992, when he was accused in the stock exchange scam. He was known as the ‘Bombay Bull’ and had connections with movie stars, politicians and even leading international entrepreneurs like Australian media tycoon Kerry Packer, who partnered Ketan Parekh in Ketan Parekh Ventures, a $250 million venture capital fund that invested mainly in new economy companies. Over the years, Ketan Parekh built a network of companies, mainly in Mumbai, involved in stock market operations.

The rise of ICE (Information, Communications, and Entertainment) stocks all over the world in early 1999 led to a rise of the Indian stock markets as well. The dotcom boom contributed to the Bull Run led by an upward trend in the NASDAQ .The companies in which Ketan Parekh held stakes includedAmitabh Bachchan Corporation Limited (ABCL), Mukta Arts, Tips and Pritish Nandy Communications.

He also had stakes in HFCL, Global Telesystems (Global), Zee Telefilms, Crest Communications, and PentaMedia Graphics. Ketan Parekh selected these companies for investment with help from his research team, which listed high growth companies with a small capital base. According to media reports, Ketan Parekh took advantage of low liquidity in these stocks, which eventually came to be known as the ‘K-10′ stocks. The shares were held through Ketan Parekh’s company, Triumph International. In July 1999, he held round 1.2 million shares in Global. Ketan Parekh controlled around 16% of Global’s floating stock, 25% of Aftek Infosys, and 15% each in Zee and HFCL. The buoyant stock markets from January to July 1999 helped the K-10 stocks increase in value substantially (Refer Exhibit I for BSE Index movements).

HFCL soared by 57% while Global increased by 200%. As a result, brokers and fund managers started investing heavily in K-10 stocks.

Mutual funds like Alliance Capital, ICICI Prudential Fund and UTI also invested in K-10 stocks, and saw their net asset value soaring. By January 2000, K-10 stocks regularly featured in the top five traded stocks in the exchanges (Refer Exhibit II for the price movements of K-10 stocks). HFCL’s traded volumes shot up from 80,000 to 1,047,000 shares. Globe’s total traded value in the Sensex was ₹51.8 billion. As such huge amounts of money were being pumped into the markets, it became tough for Ketan Parekh to control the movements of the scrips. Also, it was reported that the volumes got too big for him to handle. Analysts and regulators wondered how Ketan Parekh had managed to buy such large stakes

THE FACTORS THAT HELPED THE MAN

According to market sources, though Ketan Parekh was a successful broker, he did not have the money to buy large stakes. According to a report 12 lakh shares of Global in July 1999 would have cost Ketan Parekh around ₹ 200 million. The stake in Aftek Infosys would have cost him ₹ 50 million, while the Zee and HFCL stakes would have cost ₹ 250 million each. Analysts claimed that Ketan Parekh borrowed from various companies and banks for this purpose. His financing methods were fairly simple. He bought shares when they were trading at low prices and saw the prices go up in the bull market while continuously trading. When the price was high enough, he pledged the shares with banks as collateral for funds. He also borrowed from companies like HFCL.

This could not have been possible out without the involvement of banks. A small Ahmedabad-based bank, Madhavapura Mercantile Cooperative Bank (MMCB) was Ketan Parekh’s main ally in the scam. Ketan Parekh and his associates started tapping the MMCB for funds in early 2000. In December 2000, when Ketan Parekh faced liquidity problems in settlements he used MMCB in two different ways. First was the pay order route, wherein Ketan Parekh issued cheques drawn on BoI to MMCB, against which MMCB issued pay orders. The pay orders were discounted at BoI. It was alleged that MMCB issued funds to Ketan Parekh without proper collateral security and even crossed its capital market exposure limits. As per a RBI inspection report, MMCB’s loans to stock markets were around ₹ 10 billion of which over ₹ 8 billion were lent to Ketan Parekh and his firms.

The second route was borrowing from a MMCB branch at Mandvi (Mumbai), where different companies owned by Ketan Parekh and his associates had accounts. Ketan Parekh used around 16 such accounts, either directly or through other broker firms, to obtain funds. Apart from direct borrowings by Ketan Parekh-owned finance companies, a few brokers were also believed to have taken loans on his behalf. It was alleged that Madhur Capital, a company run by Vinit Parikh, the son of MMCB Chairman Ramesh Parikh, had acted on behalf of Ketan Parekh to borrow funds. Ketan Parekh reportedly used his BoI accounts to discount 248 pay orders worth about ₹ 24 billion between January and March 2001. BoI’s losses eventually amounted to well above ₹ 1.2 billion.

The MMCB pay order issue hit several public sector banks very hard. These included big names such as the State Bank of India, Bank of India and the Punjab National Bank, all of whom lost huge amounts in the scam. It was also alleged that Global Trust Bank (GTB) issued loans to Ketan Parekh and its exposure to the capital markets was above the prescribed limits. According to media reports, Ketan Parekh and his associates held around 4-10% stake in the bank. There were also allegations that Ketan Parekh, with the support of GTB’s former CMD Ramesh Gelli, rigged the prices of the GTB scrip for a favourable swap ratio before its proposed merger with UTI Bank.

Ketan Parekh’s modus operandi of raising funds by offering shares as collateral security to the banks worked well as long as the share prices were rising, but it reversed when the markets started crashing in March 2000. The crash, which was led by a fall in the NASDAQ, saw the K-10 stocks also declining. Ketan Parekh was asked to either pledge more shares as collateral or return some of the borrowed money. In either case, it put pressure on his financials. By April 2000, mutual funds substantially reduced their exposure in the K-10 stocks. In the next two months, while the Sensex declined by 23% and the NASDAQ by 35.9%, the K-10 stocks declined by an alarming 67%.

However, with improvements in the global technology stock markets, the K-10 stocks began picking up again in May 2000. HFCL nearly doubled from ₹ 790 to ₹ 1,353 by July 2000, while Global shot up to ₹ 1,153. Aftek Infosys was also trading at above ₹ 1000.

In December 2000, the NASDAQ crashed again and technology stocks took the hardest beating ever in the US. Led by doubts regarding the future of technology stocks, prices started falling across the globe and mutual funds and brokers began selling them. Ketan Parekh began to have liquidity problems and lost a lot of money during that period.

It was alleged that ‘bear hammering’ of Ketan Parekh’s stocks eventually led to payment problems in the markets. The Calcutta Stock Exchange’s (CSE) payment crisis was one of the biggest setbacks for Ketan Parekh. The CSE was critical for Ketan Parekh’s operation due to three reasons. One, the lack of regulations and surveillance on the bourse allowed a highly illegal and volatile badla business (Refer Exhibit III). Two, the exchange had the third-highest volumes in the country after NSE and BSE. Three, CSE helped Ketan Parekh to cover his operations from his rivals in Mumbai. Brokers at CSE used to buy shares at Ketan Parekh’s behest. Though officially the scrips were in the brokers’ names, unofficially Ketan Parekh held them. Ketan Parekh used to cover any losses that occurred due to price shortfall of the scrips and paid a 2.5% weekly interest to the brokers.

By February 2001, the scrips held by Ketan Parekh’s brokers at CSE were reduced to an estimated ₹ 6-7 billion from their initial worth of ₹ 12 billion. The situation worsened as Ketan Parekh’s badla payments of ₹ 5-6 billion were not honored on time for the settlement and about 70 CSE brokers, including the top three brokers of the CSE (Dinesh Singhania, Sanjay Khemani and Ashok Podar) defaulted on their payments. By mid-March, the value of stocks held by CSE brokers went down further to around ₹ 2.5-3 billion. The CSE brokers started pressurizing Ketan Parekh for payments. Ketan Parekh again turned to MMCB to get loans. The outflow of funds from MMCB had increased considerably from January 2001. Also, while the earlier loans to Ketan Parekh were against proper collateral and with adequate documentation, it was alleged that this time Ketan Parekh was allowed to borrow without any security.

By now, SEBI was implementing several measures to control the damage. An additional 10% deposit margin was imposed on outstanding net sales in the stock markets. Also, the limit for application of the additional volatility margins was lowered from 80% to 60%. To revive the markets, SEBI imposed restriction on short sales and ordered that the sale of shares had to be followed by deliveries. It suspended all the broker member directors of BSE’s governing board. SEBI also banned trading by all stock exchange presidents, vice-presidents and treasurers. A historical decision to ban the badla system in the country was taken, effective from July 2001, and a rolling settlement system for 200 Group Ashares was introduced on the BSE.

THE SYSTEM THAT BRED THESE FACTORS

The small investors who lost their life’s savings felt that all parties in the functioning of the market were responsible for the scams. They opined that the broker-banker-promoter nexus, which was deemed to have the acceptance of the SEBI itself, was the main reason for the scams in the Indian stock markets.

SEBI’s measures were widely criticized as being reactive rather than proactive. The market regulator was blamed for being lax in handling the issue of unusual price movement and tremendous volatility in certain shares over an 18-month period prior to February 2001. Analysts also opined that SEBI’s market intelligence was very poor. Media reports commented that Ketan Parekh’s arrest was also not due to the SEBI’s timely action but the result of complaints by BoI. A market watcher said, “When prices moved up, SEBI watched these as ‘normal’ market movements. It ignored the large positions built up by some operators. Worse, it asked no questions at all. It had to investigate these things, not as a regulatory body, but as deep-probing agency that could coordinate with other agencies. Who will bear the loss its inefficiency has caused?” An equally crucial question was raised by media regarding SEBI’s ignorance of the existence of an unofficial market at the CSE Interestingly enough, there were reports that the arrest was motivated by the government’s efforts to diffuse the Tehelka controversy.

Many exchanges were not happy with the decision of banning the badla system as they felt it would rig the liquidity in the market. Analysts who opposed the ban argued that the ban on badla without a suitable alternative for all the scrips, which were being moved to rolling settlement, would rig the volatility in the markets. They argued that the lack of finances for all players in the market would enable the few persons who were able to get funds from the banking system – including cooperative banks or promoters – to have an undue influence on the markets.
A$A$A
Here is how a Hyderabad man ripped Flipkart off Rs 20 lakh.



Leading e-commerce website Flipkart was duped of over Rs 20 lakh by a Hyderabad man who returned fake items after complaining to the company that the goods were poor in quality.





32-year-old Veera Swamy, lived in the Vanasthalipuram area of the city and allegedly booked orders for valuable electronic items in the name of mother, father, wife, brothers and other known people in the neighbourhood.

Once the items were delivered, he would swap the original item with a fake item and call up the call centre complaining that the goods delivered were of poor quality.





The company sends representatives to pick any poor quality goods, and Veera would send back the fake item, writing the model number and item code as received.

Veera also created fake email IDs and made bank payments through different accounts, so that the money would be refunded to his various accounts!



Veera has been accused of making 200 purchases in last 20 months. The company now claims to have incurred loss worth 20 Lakhs Rupees.



The return policy of Flipkart seems to be too seamless for some Indians!



Image source: Shamelessly picked copyright images from Google Images.

Edit: Thanks for the upvotes. My first 1k.
A$A$A
The King of Good Times : Vijay Mallya

Vijay Mallya inherited an empire, made it bigger, had fun, lost an empire, and walked away into the sunset (almost).

For this you, have to go back to 2010. As usual Mr Mallya was neck deep in trouble, with the banks circling around like vultures asking for the money that Kingfisher borrowed but could not or did not repay.  So our man, decided to sit with the bankers, to ‘restructure’/reduce/waive off his debt. And the bankers obliged.

   Drinks were on the house !

Kingfisher's debt was reduced to Rs 6000 crore,from the previous debt of Rs 8414 crores, when some of the debt was converted to equity. Banks took up a 23 percent stake in the Airline, with each Kingfisher Airline share being valued by banks at Rs 64.48. The banks determined that 23 percent of the airline, at the above share price, was about Rs 1400 crores. This price was knocked off from the original debt. After that, both the bankers and Mallya went home happy and probably had a big party.

However, there was one small problem.

Share price of Kingfisher Airlines, that day was, Rs 39.90.

This meant that, Mr Mallya was given an incredible premium of 61 percent premium per share in his failing company. Either he had a rocky balboa like business model, some influential friends, or Bodhidharmanish hypnotic powers or maybe all the three.

I am not particularly strong in Maths, but then a quick back of the envelope calculation shows that,

According to banks, 1400 crores of Kingfisher Airlines, represents 23.32 percent of the company when valued at Rs 64.48 per share. In reality however, a simple multiplication shows that, 23 percent of the company at that value is closer to around Rs 1000 crores, with the 400 crores being touted as the haircut taken by the banks. So the banks, which are under the control of the government of India, literally wrote off Rs 400 Crores, even after their generous calculation.

But, when you account for the real stock price at that time, which was Rs 39.90, 23 percent of the company was not Rs 1400 crores or Rs 1000 crores as determined by the banks.

It was, actually, somewhere close to Rs 461 Crores. The day the deal was signed, banks had decided to literally hand over Rs 1000 crores of depositor’s money to Vijay Mallya and his floundering airline. While Vijay Mallya claimed he had reduced his debt, which in essence was true, he had actually deprived the depositors and the banks of more than Rs 1000 crores.

The banks, to their defence, will say that as it is the price of a share and considering India’s potential in aviation, Rs 39 is a minor blip and the price will rise to its true value, which they determined as Rs 64, sooner rather than later.

It has been eight months since the deal was announced, and the highest stock price of Kingfisher in that period…Rs 48.85. Not once did it cross, the bank determined value. Not once.

As of today Kingfisher stock price has nosedived to Rs 23, rendering the value of the Kingfisher stocks that the banks have, to Rs 276 crores or so.

Vijay Mallya has swallowed, as of 19 March 2016, at least Rs 9000 crores of depositor’s money from various banks. 

To put it in perspective,

1. Kanimozhi is in Jail for the last six months for accepting a bribe of Rs 200 crores.

2. Rajeev Gandhi, lost his government in 1989, for an inflation adjusted sum of  Rs 950 crores.

And Vijay Mallya, well, You know where he is.

Add to the above straight up loss of Rs 1200 crores, the banks also reduced
A$A$A
Some intelligent crimes committed in India are by foreigners. Our blogger Mayank Dixit at ED Times has taken a look at the rising number of crimes committed by foreigners:

Atithi Criminal Bhava: Rising Trend Of Foreigners Committing Crimes In India

India, since long, has been the tourism hotspot for foreigners from various countries. But in the recent past, India has earned a rather negative image in the minds of foreign tourists because of all sorts of violence happening against them.

Now how will you react if I make you aware of the ground reality that the offenses committed by the foreigners are thrice the atrocities committed against them? But why would those friendly looking “Gore Log” try to commit crimes in our Incredible India?

WHAT THE STATS SAY?

According to National Crime Record Bureau, between January 2014 and December 2016, a total of nearly 4000 crimes were committed by foreigners as compared to some 1200 committed against them.

But as compared to Indian nationals being tried as per provisions provided in the Indian Penal Code, foreigners are tried either under the Foreigners Act, 1946, and Passport Act, 1967, which do not attract that strict a punishment.

CRIMES COMMITTED BY THE FOREIGNERS

According to the data available for 2016, 11 murders were committed by foreign nationals. Similarly, 75 cases of cheating and 100+ cases of forgery and smuggling or selling banned drugs or narcotics were registered against them. Foreigners were accused in 12 cases of rapes too. Foreigners have also been part of white collar crimes such as cybercrimes.

Now what is interesting is that nobody has talked about these stats, neither any strict laws have been implemented to control these spates in the crimes being committed.

ALSO READ: QuoraED: What Can I Learn Right Now In 10 Minutes That Will Be Useful For The Rest Of My Life?

WHY FOREIGNERS COMMIT THESE CRIMES?

The main reason for foreigners committing crimes in India is that foreign nationals commit a crime to illegally increase their stay in the country. Now the whole process of committing crimes and increasing their stay is pretty much interesting.

Whenever a foreigner lands in India, they are granted a visa for some specific time. If these tourists have the ulterior motives of extending their stay without extending their visa, then one way of doing this is to commit any crime, petty or serious.

Then somehow, they manage to secure a bail and as per Indian Law, the person acquiring bail is not allowed to leave the country. And this condition has only been a blessing in disguise for such foreigners.

And after securing bail, it is difficult to trace these foreigners as they tend to change their name and move to a different state.

Now crimes being committed by the foreigners are by no means an excuse for the violence committed against them. We are just raising the point that as much as the laws are stringent for any crime committed by an Indian national, the laws should be made equally strict for any foreigner. No discrimination based on nationality is what will drive our country to achieve the “Incredible India” status in the true sense.

Source: Home - ED Times | The Youth Blog

Footnotes

[1 ] Atithi Criminal Bhava: Rising Trend Of Foreigners Committing Crimes In India
A$A$A
Let me narrate the Incident which has happened with me multiple times at different petrol pumps in India.

Me: Refuel for Rs 500/-

Attendant(A): OK.

Sets the meter , asks me to check for 0 and starts refueling.

Stops at 100/-, and removes the nozzle as if he's done.

Me : Why did you stop ?

A : You said 100 .

Me : No, I said Rs 500.

A : oh OK, I will refuel for the remainder amount.

Then he goes without resetting the meter (why will he , its the same transaction).

If you are not someone who does not notice minute details , you might not notice this.Also he will try to continuously talk to keep you occupied.

He stops when the meter reads 400/- , Removes the nozzle and gestures me to move on.

Generally if you haven't been paying attention , you'll be fine and move on.But I was confused ,so I asked

Me : Why did you stop ? Its only 400/- worth of petrol and i have paid 500/-.

A : oh No .You see , I put Rs 100/- worth at the first time and the rest 400/- the second time , so its Rs 500/-.

Me : But you did not reset the meter back to 0 the second time , so its just 400.

A : (Thinks for few seconds) Oh is it ? i thought i did . I am really Sorry ,it gets confusing sometimes.

Refuels my vehicle for 100/- , Smiles and I move on.

Some people do not counter, either trusting the attendant or they are in a rush.

Initially I thought it was a genuine mistake , but I randomly mentioned it to one of my colleague and he said same thing happened to him at a different station.

Also this incident has happened with me multiple times , So now either I Pay attention when the attendant says he misheard me. I get my 007 instincts ready. :)
A$A$A
Recently my colleague told me about this incident which happened in the Bank where her brother works.

One of the customer in his bank has got a call from Airtel office and asked him about the Aadhar Card Number. The person refused to provide the aadhar number stating i have received messages not to share my aadhar number / OTP to anyone, if required I will come to Airtel office and submit it and he disconnected the call.

After few hours, he received a text message from Airtel-Broadcast message format in his mobile number asking him to confirm if this is his mobile number and if yes send “1” to particular number.

He did not think much and confirmed the mobile number and sent his confirmation.

After few minutes to half an hour his number was blocked roughly at 3.35pm and again activated by 6pm. In the mean time, 64,000 has been debited from his account.

How he managed to get his Bank details:

We all usually save the Bank details ( Card number ,etc) in online websites in our mobile App.

He has activated the same mobile number in other sim card and tried to get the bank details from his sim history

He tried to authenticate the transaction using OTP which will be sent to the registered mobile number and he had already activated it in another sim card.

Bank had rejected first two transaction and after that it was allowed due to proper credentials

He has used forgot password / OTP and all possible methods to hack the password and account details.

Customer has complained about this to the Bank and they are investigating it.

Please don’t save cards / other details in any App and also don’t send such messages confirming your mobile number.
A$A$A
Special Chabbis

The film is inspired by a real-life heist on March 19, 1987 where a group posing as CBI officers executed an income tax raid on the Opera House branch of Tribhovandas Bhimji Zaveri in Mumbai.
A$A$A
One of the most intelligent crimes committed was by Harshad Mehta. I will mention it concisely:

Earlier one bank could draw loans from another bank without the interference of RBI. But this was done via a broker. The lending bank would give the money to broker and he will handle the entire transaction charging a commission.

So what Harshad did was he drew crores of rupees from banks in name of fake loans. Then he used all that money to buy the shares of a particular brand. Now as demand of a particular stock increases and availability decreases, the price of the stock increases substantially. So when the price went rocket high, he sold all of those stocks and the market crashed. Now he had enough money to repay the loans along with a huge profit.

To know more: http://theindianstockbrokers.com...
A$A$A
1987 Opera House heist By Mohan Singh

The 2013 Indian film Special 26 is inspired by this heist.The Sialkot Saga, a book by Ashwin Sanghi also has a reference to this incident.

The person posing himself as Mon Singh or Mohan Singh had placed a classified advertisement in the 17 March 1987 issue of The Times of India, asking for "Dynamic Graduates for Intelligence Officers Post and Security Officers Post". Applicants were told to report to the hotel Taj Intercontinental between 10 am and 5 pm the next day. He rented an office at Mittal Towers in Nariman Point to interview the candidates. Singh selected at least 26 candidates and asked them to report to the Taj the following day and were briefed about the 'mock raid' by Singh.

They arrived at the Opera House branch of Tribhovandas Bhimji Zaveri jewellers around 2:15 pm. Singh introduced himself to the owner, Pratap Zevari, and produced a "search warrant". He ordered the owners to turn off CCTV cameras and surrender a licensed revolver held on the premises. Singh and the fake contingent of officers did not allow any phone calls and took samples of ornaments for assessment of the quality of the gold. Singh picked "samples" of jewelry and had them sealed in polybags. Cash was also collected. After 45 minutes Singh asked two men to put the briefcases in the bus. He asked others to keep watch on the shop and left in the bus to 'supervise' another raid. After about an hour, the owners called the Mumbai Police.

Investigation

Police investigation revealed that he booked room number 415 at The Taj on 17 March and he put an advertisement in the newspaper. Police found that Singh reached the hotel after leaving the jewelry shop and hired a taxi from there. The taxi dropped him at Vile Parle where he hired an auto.

He was last seen there and there was no trail. The police put out a nationwide alert. They sent a team to Kerala as his hotel record showed that he hailed from Trivandrum. A person named George Augustine Fernandes was arrested but later found that he was not involved. They also sent a team to Dubai but no headway reported.The heist amount ranged from ₹ 30 to 35 Lakhs (₹ 3 to 3.5 million)
A$A$A
The national securities scam involving Harshad Mehta.

Check this out: Shishira Somashekar's answer to India: What are some of the most intelligent crimes committed in India?
A$A$A
The ones that come to mind instantly are:-

1. 2008 Noida double murder case

2. 1987 Opera House heist - Special 26 is based on this.

3. Who is Bunty Chor? Oye Lucky Lucky Oye is based on this

4. Chelembra bank robbery

On a lighter note, I hope you don't have malicious intentions! :P
A$A$A
During Deve Goudas tenure as PM,someone named Ramesh claimed that he invented to produce petrol from water. He was believed by our then PM too.Even under graduate science student can confirm that no organic compound cab derived from neutral inorganic Compound. It too is big lie in our nation.
A$A$A
Any scam or criminal activity is an intelligent one, only if it isn't exposed. And we only know of scams and criminal activities which have been exposed, so neither of them were actually intelligent. Because if you can't under table the criminal activity, then its better to do a legal act. And my friend, a thief is not called a thief till the time he isn't caught.
A$A$A
Ketan Parekh: The guy who filled up Harshad Mehta's place.



Read article here ;

http://indiatoday.intoday.in/sto...
A$A$A
Sukumara Kurup

He is the most wanted criminal in the state of Kerala. In 1984, he killed a man named Chacko and burned his body inside a car thereby faking his own death. Apparently he did it in order to claim his insurance money. He fled the country immediately after this. 33 years hence, the police still has no clue about him. They aren't even sure if he's alive or dead.
A$A$A
The most intelligent crime is alwyas to cheat people with their consent and short time big profit by luring higher retuns in less time .every human being is greedy on this earth .CHEATING /MAKING FOOL PEOPLE with the consent is best n intelligent crimes in all over world ( SAHARA EPISODE IS ALSO A PLANNED WHTITE COOLAR CRIME )
A$A$A
I think Arushi murder case was the one the most intelligent crime that took place in our country......As we know all know country like as required appox. 10 years to solve any case or to give judgement on that but this case relvove around her parents, but even police are not sure about that.
A$A$A
1987 Opera House heist is probably one of the most smart crimes committed in India.
A$A$A
This is no related to question though , but ::::::

A primary/secondary school boy stealing anothee boy’s pen in class, is the most common ‘kids crime’ !! Like seriously , according to an article ( idk where i read it ) , stealing of things like pen , pencil, eraser , etc is most common :-D

So guys , stay safe , your pen, pencil , eraser can be stolen by anyone , even your own friend :-D
A$A$A
Scams.

Take your pic. Bofors scam, stamp paper scam, CWG scam, coal mining scam etc.
A$A$A
Natwarlal takes the cake
A$A$A
When Natwarlal, a conman, sold the Taj mahal, twice.
A$A$A
Aarushi murder case
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
How does an express (urgent) international wire transfer work in comparison to an ordinary transfer?
A$A$A
On "URGENT", the sending bank may offer a later deadline for same day processing. If SWIFT is used, then it is expressed by inserting the word "URGENT" into the details of the message. This is an indication to the receiving bank to try to process the payment faster (if it falls to repair). It is a request - the receiving bank is not required to do anything special.

With that:

1. The fee is higher because the sender requested the "premium" service. Whether the service is worth the price is a separate question.

2. In case of SWIFT and internal bank systems, exactly the same network & technology are used.
A$A$A
Anything Urgent usually means it is pre-funded and is being settled before the normal net-deferred settlement times.

If a regular wire transfer from say US to Thailand takes 1.5 days, it is because the two banks that are processing the wire, are settling with each other.

If the payment in Thailand has to be made before the settlement, then it essentially means that the Bank in Thailand is loaning out the money in advance, before it receives its promised amount from the US.

This loaning out, has a cost associated with it, and hence the premium.

You can learn more about the settlement process from: Faisal Khan's answer to How does the settlement of payments work in banks? Specifically, how do payment systems that are connected to multiple banks actually settle the amount between two banks?
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
If a person is in a big financial crisis, can he consider migrating to Australia or Canada?
A$A$A
In 2013 I received an equity-free investment to launch a tech business idea in Chile and the only requirement was to live there for six months.

After that I went back to my hometown in Brazil where there was pretty much no market for tech companies.

We had some offers to raise money and move permanently to Chile or to Canada, but because our target market was spread out around the world, we could really launch it from anywhere, so we decided we would try to make it work from our very underdeveloped state of Maranhão.

That dream became possible the day the Government of Maranhão approved our application to finance a one-year project.

And… That's how I made the biggest mistake of my life. I should've known better. 99% of public institutions in Brazil are involved in some degree of corruption, so it's not a great idea to partner with them.

It's a long story how it all happened and I will write about it one day, but in summary, they never paid us the full amount approved. To maintain the team and the contracts planned for the full year, I was using my personal cash which I thought would be a temporary thing until they paid us.

They never did. The project was doing better than ever. But, my personal finance was completely broken.

As I've lived in Australia before I knew it was my best way out to secure my personal life at that moment.

I put the project 100% on hold and got immediately in “job hunting mode”.

Looking for a job in a different country, with no visa, is a very hard work! Luckily, I was able to get a few offers and the company I chose in Sydney could sponsor my visa.

And here I am.

I got my financials back on track in less than six months after my arrival in Australia and applied for a permanent residency visa after that. Then I was able to quit my job and get back to work on my own business ideas again and it feels awesome :)
A$A$A
Migrating to Canada or Australia is a long and tedious process and involves high financial costs and lots of efforts. If you are currently in a big financial crisis, it is unlikely that you will be able to bear these costs and focus on the process and pathway to immigration.

Besides, you will also need early settlement costs in Oz or Canada- to pay rent, eat, transport etc. You are not likely to find job the day you land or even weeks or months after that.

So you need to seriously think about your decision. My suggestion would be that if you are planning to migrate without any preparation you are asking for a bigger financial crisis than you already are in.
A$A$A
Nope. Both countries will ask you to show bank proof statements that you have enough money to take care of yourself when you are in their country such you will not rely on THEIR public welfare system in case something happens to you.
A$A$A
Of course you can consider! When a person is in a desperate situation, s/he can consider anything.

However having said, that your problems will land in Australia or Canada way before you will. Life wasn't meant to be easy in 'Australia' in particular!
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What are the new trends in information technology in tourism?
A$A$A
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What is the most catastrophic mistake made by an intern at a company?
A$A$A
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
How does Claims Analytics impact the claims processing time?
A$A$A
Claims analytics impact the claims processing time, in different ways as claims processing is a time-consuming and labor- intensive process, including embarrassment of system and multiple business components. With so many segments of the series, the resulting processes are often represented by unpredictable delays, costing time, money, and effort for the company.

Insurers are now emerging and developing a variety of analytical solutions that can help them to manage these tasks across the entire claim process.

The payoffs for insurers in employing claims analytics are many:

• Reducing Customer abrasion

• Eliminating Litigation Costs

• Reduced losses from claims fraud

• Reduced delay in settlements

• Accurate claims valuation

The Claims analytic purpose is to analyze data, at several stages of the cycle and apparently cut down the assessment as well as reduce the errors in decisions. Analytics help to uncover similar past cases from the company’s database, leading to a rushing of individual claims, and finally settling it.

For illustration, analytics can be premeditated around statistics expanded at the First Notification of Loss (FNOL) stage, to estimate outcomes for a specific claim and getting predictions of the claims settlement process, as well as reducing the time taken by the overall process. Data for similar claims from the previous would be a main component of such a system. Hence, in this way claims analytics impact the claim processing time.

References: Claims Management Services

Are You Planning to Outsource Insurance Claims Processing?
A$A$A
Claims analytics, is the method in which structured and unstructured data analysed at every single step of claims processing to come out with accurate results. Considering analytics for claims processing can have the biggest effect and deliver you the measurable return on investment along with cost benefits and increased revenue. The use of claims analytics increasingly important and has turned out the best practice for the insurance industry.

It helps in the situations when any major events occur like floods where large numbers of new claims needs to settle instantly. In such case, fast-tracking claims can lead to overpaying. By incorporating historical statistics it helps them avoid overpaying and keep claims processing on the fast track.

Claims analytics is a part of claims management which can streamline your claims process enables you to detect fraud claims in advance and assist in better decision making.
A$A$A
The establishment of achievement of each business and administration segment is the nature of the client benefit they give. Superb client administration will drive up client obtaining rates and upgrade potential customers and prompt expanded client consistency standards. The protection business isn't a special case of this pattern. Protection claims preparing is one among the three central components of the protection esteem included chain. The nature of protection claims preparing offered by organizations can represent the moment of truth the connection between the protection purveyor and its client.

Superlative cases preparing the background for clients can enable re-to characterize the current insurance agency-client relationship. This would improve client maintenance and drive more clients to buy protection from the organization, therefore assembling their notoriety and the piece of the pie. Likewise, change and improvement of existing cases forms, and in addition presentation of new practices, can serve to reinforce gainfulness.

Here we depict some ways by which information administration and information examination can help enhance the productivity of protection claims handling.

1. Data Quality

2. Misrepresentation proof

3. Subrogation case acknowledgement

4. Litigation case acknowledgement

Outsourcing to a specialist GrayMatter Analytics can definitely give important help toward this path.
A$A$A
Adding analytics to the claims process can deliver a measurable return on investment with cost savings and increased profits. Also, when it comes to claims processing, insurers are obsessed with the revenue cycle time. So, when analytics are used the decisions time gets shorter impacting the overall processing time.

Claims analytics closely takes down minute details like the days it takes to make a claim adjudication decision, the minutes it takes to complete the loss intake process, and the seconds it takes to process a transaction. Especially in high-volume environments, because time is money there.

Faster claim payments generally equate to better customer satisfaction and loyalty. Anything that slows the process is burdensome and costly. Insurance companies are always looking for ideas on how to improve or optimize the claims process. And, in such aligning to claims analytics services will always remain beneficial to the insurance company.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What benefits do banks gain by using Ripple?
A$A$A
Ripple allows banks to transact directly and instantly so they can service payments on demand.

Today, cross-border payments are processed through a chain of banks with each intermediary representing a potential point of delay, failure and cost. Smaller, respondent banks depend on large correspondent banks to provide liquidity for their cross-currency payments.

The process requires respondent banks to outlay liquidity in nostro accounts with correspondent banks. Correspondent banking costs make servicing certain types of cross-border payments, like low-value payments, unprofitable for banks.

By matter of enabling instant, point-to-point settlement, Ripple reduces these liquidity requirements. And by matter of providing end-to-end visibility into each settlement, Ripple compresses payment operational costs associated with reconciling exceptions and failures.

In The Cost-Cutting Case for Banks, we can analyze the ROI (Return On Investment) of a representative respondent bank using Ripple. For this type of bank using Ripple as an infrastructure solution, it can save 33 percent in liquidity, Basel III and operational costs.

International Payment Infrastructure Costs

Global Average Cost: 20.9 bps on payment volume

We then examine the cost structure for global interbank payments using XRP, the native digital asset to the Ripple consensus network, as a bridge asset. Like all digital assets, XRP is a store of value that can be transferred between parties anywhere in the world without a central counterparty. Uniquely, XRP can also support liquidity between any two currencies, acting as a bridge asset.

Instead of holding local currency in nostro accounts around the world, banks (or third-party market makers on their behalf) can consolidate their liquidity for global payments into one XRP account, held on their own balance sheets. This singular XRP pool then allows respondent banks to allocate less total liquidity to service the same volume of international payments in three ways:

They only have to hold domestic currency and maintain one account with XRP versus many, expensive nostro accounts around the world.

They only need enough XRP on hand to service their largest expected payment obligations, freeing previously trapped liquidity idling in nostro accounts around the world. XRP allows banks to access liquidity on demand.

By making markets directly between their domestic currencies and XRP, banks minimize the number of intermediaries involved and their markup on spreads.

As a result, respondent banks that use Ripple with XRP as a bridge currency can save up to 42 percent on costs today and up to 60 percent as XRP gains usage and volatility decreases. To accelerate market thickness and reduce volatility for XRP, Ripple will soon introduce an XRP incentive program to algorithmically rebate market makers who provide liquidity through XRP.

International Payment Infrastructure Costs

Global Average Cost: 20.9 bps on payment volume

By matter of rewiring the world’s financial plumbing so transactional costs are a step change lower, distributed financial technology makes the currently impossible or improbable both possible and profitable.

In the world of payments, a technology solution like Ripple and XRP creates unprecedented cost-efficiency and global reach, so banks can profitably serve use cases like global disbursements, international cash pooling, low-value remittances and even micropayments.

Beyond payments, this same model of using Ripple and XRP can free billions of dollars currently trapped in collateral accounts or absorbed as costs in any other financial market from repo to derivatives.

The prescient banker doesn’t look at how they can make incremental improvements to today’s systems with blockchain technology, but how they can adopt today to position thier bank to survive and thrive through the evolutionary change already underway.
A$A$A
Banks can use Ripple (the core settlement technology) to gain a better cost-structure for real-time cross-border payments. This is the result of a more efficient technical settlement infrastructure (which has a direct impact on the costs of avoiding settlement risk).

Banks can also gain more efficient processing and liquidity management capabilities by using products developed by Ripple Inc. (the company that created Ripple).

These are key problems, so a number of banks are interested.

For more details, see https://ripple.com/solutions/cro... and  https://ripple.com/files/ripple_...
E$E$E

