Q$Q$Q
I'm struggling to pay my mortgage. Can I lease my home to my brother to avoid foreclosure until I receive my grandfather's inheritance?
A$A$A
Go for it but only after reading the full answer.You didn't say if you are already in default or how long you have owned the property.

Most mortgages have an "Occupancy Clause" where your application states that you will live in the property as your primary residence. This is to prevent a bunch of people buying as primary, since those are simpler to get as opposed to a rental or vacation home, where a higher down-payment and interest rate will apply.

However, the occupancy clause normally expires a year after you purchase the property, at which time you can rent to anyone.

If you are already in default and foreclosure proceedings have commenced, speaking to a loss mitigation officer with the lender and proposing your solution will help.

No one in the bank is promoted for getting the most foreclosures, but they do for working things out and preventing them. One suggestion they will always make is that you try to get additional income.  When she suggests that you, you say,

"thanks for suggesting that, my brother is looking to rent now and can move in anytime. Should I collect two or one months rent upfront, or should he open an account with you and deposit every month?"

She looks good and you don't mind it for giving her the chance to get a promotion. Those collection conversations are normally recorded to protect you and the officer in case of a later dispute and she knows it. She wouldn't want it to come back and haunt her for refusing to solve the problem.

All that being said, I don't know your location, and mortgage and real estate law is different in every country. But this should cover most of the US. Sometimes we Quoran's seem to forget how global the platform is.
A$A$A
There are two forms of foreclosure. One form is a Judicial Foreclosure where the lender must bring an action in court for judgment on the mortgage and then the sale of the home is ordered to satisfy the judgment with the deficiency, if any, your responsibility. The other form is Non-Judicial foreclosure where the lender will file some form of default / Notice of Sale / Notice of Trustee Sale and the home is auctioned off at a prescribed period of time after. There may be a right of redemption available to you based on your State's laws.

In each form of foreclosure, the dispute is between the Lender and the borrower. There is no dispute between the tenant and the Lender. Therefore, creating a lease will have no impact on the ability of the Lender to bring a foreclosure action. However, once the home has conveyed either back to the Lender, due to failure to sell or find a bidder at auction, or to a 3rd party who is a successful purchaser or bidder, then there is a relationship between the tenant and the new owner of the property. This may delay possession of the lender or 3rd party to the property, but the foreclosure would have already happened.

So, no leasing the property will have no effect on delaying the foreclosure. There may be many other options available to do so and you should seek competent legal counsel  to explore those options.
A$A$A
You can but you'd need to get permission from the mortgage company. If by "struggling" you mean things have been tight but you've been making all your payments on time then the bank might have no problem. But if you've been missing payments and the bank is thinking about foreclosing then they'll say no, a tenant is an unwanted complication in a foreclosure.

By the way all of the mortgages on my rentals prohibit me from renting to family. 
A$A$A
Your contract most likely states lendee and or assignee of rents so if you lease the home in default the lender can collect the rent to put towards your mortgage.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
If someone is working hard but struggling with $40,000 of debt and a $200,000 mortgage to pay off, is a starving Ethiopian with no money richer than them?
A$A$A
If the starving Ethiopian is happy and grateful, then perhaps yes.

If the starving Ethiopian is merely hungry, and his or her family is healthy, and there is some certainty of not dying from hunger, and some ability to enjoy sex without conceiving another child who might die of diseases that are preventable in the west, perhaps yes.

If the starving Ethiopian can read, and his or her family can pursue education, and trust the laws of his or her land, and do something other than spend most of the day pursuing food and clean water, then perhaps yes.

Else, I’ll take the debt any day. It takes a lawful society to manage mortgages for people who qualify. I like my clean water.
A$A$A
Sometimes, in the middle of your daily struggles, it's easy to lose perspective. Lots of people in North America feel poor, even people with annual incomes of $50,000 or more. Many “middle income” families live with sever financial pressures. We get ourselves in debt. We lose our job. We get sick and have to mortgage our home to pay medical bills. Life can get incredibly stressful.

But, comparing your struggles to those of someone starving for lack of resources to buy food is a bit crazy. Just ask yourself, would you trade places with a starving Ethiopian? Would you rather worry about how you are going to deal with your debt or watch your children go hungry because you couldn't find the resources to feed them?
A$A$A
Hell no.

That person with a 200K mortgage? Must have some serious income to get that loan.

And that mortgage… that went to buy a house, right?

So the person has debt, but also a substantial income and a nice house!
A$A$A
Neither is rich, both a serious problem, just one caused their own mess the other likely was born into it.
A$A$A
I was actually in a similar situation:

$280k mortgage.

$20k debt in line of credit.

Zero disposable income. In fact, there was a deficit of $3k-$4k per year.

Also, felt the same way and funny enough, asking myself a similar question. On the paper, yes, the ethiopian is richer. But, you don’t ever want to be in his place.

Now, nothing prevents you to get rid of your liabilities (unless you are under water) and be like the ethiopian. Press the reset button. Be lightweight. Sell your house and get rid of your debt.

Now that you have broken your chains that left you tied up, make changes to your life for the better. You are mobile now. Find a better job elsewhere, even if it means moving to another city. Get an education if needed. This time, make sure you leave some disposable income and do not make the same mistakes again.
A$A$A
No.

You still have assets, a place to live, food.

Debt can be repaid. It looks impossible, but at least you have a job, and can make an honest attempt to right yourself.

The community is still sufficiently rich to help, and there are still people with the right “heart”.
A$A$A
If you add up the paper assets then yes the Ethiopian is richer but cash flow/income (which you would need to get the loan in the first place).

That income can be converted to an asset using the magic of economist which will be higher than the loans which is why the person was approved for them in the first place. Even if they loose the job they have the potential to get a similar job.
A$A$A
Depends on what accounting method you use. But obviously the real world answer is: no.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
I'm struggling with mortgage payment: one month behind and may not be able to pay for 3 months to come. Is there anything I can do to have a break until I sort my finances out?
A$A$A
First, absolutely do not ignore phone calls or letters from your lender. 

Second, absolutely do not fall for anyone who claims they are an angel who has floated down from the heavens and proclaims he/she can rescue you. 

Third, states have passed laws since the meltdown of the 2000s, and these state laws are definitely favoring the consumer. The new laws give homeowners many options, in order to avoid losing the home.  Some of these options have specific timelines, and you could be asked to prove financial hardship. 

Fourth, since the meltdown, The Dodd Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and they have all kinds of resources available on their website including this page regarding spotting foreclosure rescue scams:

Foreclosure help is free, and scams are expensive > Blog > Consumer Financial Protection Bureau

My advice is to work directly with the company that is servicing your loan.  If there is light at the end of the tunnel---3 months away--and you'll be back on your feet, perhaps the can take those three payments and add them on to the end of your loan, extending the loan term by 3 months.

Be honest with yourself, though. If there really is no light at the end of the tunnel, maybe you are better off moving out, living someplace less expensive until you're back on your feet, and put a renter in there that would cover the payment.  Or just sell the home in order to avoid foreclosure.

Also, in all states, the State Bar Association will often provide a "free legal aid" service for people who are in financial distress and need an  hour or so of counseling.  You will probably have to qualify, meaning, prove financial neediness.  BUT it could be worth it to get a chance to obtain advice from an attorney.

I wish you well and hope that you're back on your feet soon!
A$A$A
Tough times. I feel for you. Your best bet? Talk to your mortgage company and ask for a "forebearance". "I can't pay for the next 3 months, please add the payments to my loan balance." Be patient, they may or may not go for it. If they don't, they won't bug you for 3 months anyway. Then you will receive an NOD - notice of default. If you can get up to date before then you'll be OK. If not, it's a slippery slope...
A$A$A
Yes get in touch with your lender immediately and maintain an open dialogue with them. They may offer you a reduced payment or your mortgage could have a payment holiday term in the offer which can help you get back on your feet.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
Does Donald Trump's ostentatious display of wealth automatically make him a bad choice for President?
A$A$A
I don’t see why. Both he and Hillary Clinton are not representatives of the middle class Americans by any stretch of the imagination. Trump’s wealth is estimated to be between $3–4 billion dollars.

The Clinton’s wealth is $111 million dollars. Hillary Clinton Net Worth - Money Nation

Here Are The Two Multi-Million Dollar Mansions Hillary Says She "Struggled" To Pay Mortgage On - America Rising

Hillary Clinton dodges estate tax by putting New York home into trusts

Here is the Clinton’s $1.7 million mansion in Chappaqua, NY .

Here is the Clinton’s $2.85 million mansion on Embassy Row in Washington D.C. The home has 5 bedrooms and 6 baths.

Perhaps the Clintons don’t ostentatiously display their wealth, yet it still doesn’t change the fact they are extremely wealthy. They became this wealthy in a large part to “speaking engagements.” Trump became well off on real estate ventures. Neither broke a sweat.

A good number of our Presidents have been wealthy. The 10 Richest U.S. Presidents

So, with that in mind, I would say his display of wealth is not a factor to consider him a poor candidate for President or not.
A$A$A
It shows that money doesn't equal class but does not in itself mean that he is unqualified to be president. What makes him unqualified is his racism, mendacity, misogyny, and inability to understand that he is unqualified.
A$A$A
No, that are not the reasons why he is a bad choice for President, but it helps.

The reasons he is a bad choice for president include, but are not limited too

1/ He doesn’t listen to anyone else.

2/ He is a racist, sexist, belligerent, bullheaded loud mouthed twit.

3/ He has no policies worth a pinch of bat spit. Build a wall? Ban and Deport Muslims? Replace healthcare with something “terrific”.

4/ He has no idea about anything outside the U.S.A.

5/ He wants to deploy nukes

6/ He has no idea about how to be a politician. Never held office

7/ He is fundamentally dishonest. He has repeatedly and demonstrably cheated small businessmen and women and the community around him.

8/ He is a terrible financial manager. He has gone broke multiple times, lost billions,

9/ He is immoral. He most certainly has little Christianity - 1 cor, 2 cor. whatever.

Please add more in the comments and I’ll add to the list..
A$A$A
No, his wealth by itself is not damming. The Clintons and Bushes had plenty of money too, maybe not Trump money, but well into many millions of dollars.

None of the candidates is reflective of the vast majority of the population. Unfortunately, this is a reality we must live with.
A$A$A
No. It just makes him a bad candidate to be a human being. And why does he always have a beautiful young woman beside him, not his wife. Is the animal depicted one that he or one of his sons disposed of in a less than humane way by shooting it?

This phony man of the people who wears a tractor hat hasn’t a clue who he is but the peanut gallery has spoken. He’s one of them, even though he wouldn’t wipe his feet or step foot over the hearth of a common man. He’s pathetic. At least Romney didn’t wear a tractor hat or pretend he was a common man. Everything about Mr. Trump is a lie.

Thanks for the request.
A$A$A
No way. This is America, home of Capitalism. His wealth is obvious, if not ostentatious. We should all aspire to such success. The golden walls of Trump Tower may not be to your liking or mine. However, each person can spend their resources as they see fit. Since when has America frowned on success, wealth and achievement? Our nation, if run more like a business than a government, might be more fruitful for all of us. In that respect, Trump’s ‘display of wealth’ actually makes him the best choice for President.

At least he didnt sell government access in exchange for his wealth like the other candidate.
A$A$A
In my opinion, the picture shown above looks more like an advertisement for the next season of Gossip girl or 90210, and less like the face of a running candidate for presidency.

A president should be someone who understands what his people have gone through and can relate to their hardships in hopes of improving them. Economically speaking, Trump represents the minority of rich individuals which is why he happens to appeal to them very much.

Personally, I don't know what is going to happen to the U.S In the future and am quite frankly terrified, regardless of the outcome of the election.
A$A$A
when your net worth is measured in BILLIONS, there sorta is no such thing...

even warren buffet once had a giant personal jet...
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What is it like to be in a relationship with someone born rich?
A$A$A
“You don’t make enough time for me.”

Love only goes so far.

People want attention.

People want validation.

They struggle with extended periods of loneliness.

I don’t.

I succeeded from a rough background because of one quality: persistence.

For five years, I worked every weekend and put in one-hundred-hour workweeks.

I became a machine.

I avoided all distractions and took every opportunity to further my career.

It paid off.

I’m one of the youngest tech evangelists for one of the fastest growing software companies in Silicon Valley.

I know what got me to where I am, so I’ll continue with my persistence and crazy hours.

My girlfriend didn’t understand the value of hard work.

She never chased a huge dream.

She never took an extraordinary risk.

She graduated college with financial security from her parents.

After college, I lost all my money several times in poor career investments; burned-out from working too many hours; and moved more times than I can remember.

I did all of this in the pursuit to realize my dream career.

Now I have it.

I know what got me here.

She never understood the long nights, the writing down of ideas, my struggle to sleep, and my need to push boundaries. She thought I didn’t care enough about her, but she didn’t see the other side.

I work hard because I want to pay off my Mom’s mortgage and loans to help her retire early.

I work hard so one day I can write full time.

I work hard because I love what I do.

How do you explain this to someone who’s had everything given to them?

I tried.

In the end, we broke up.

Sometimes you need to find people who’ve gone through similar journeys. Only they can truly understand you.

They’re out there.

Keep searching.
A$A$A
I briefly dated someone who came from a very affluent family.  She had the best clothes money could buy, awesome sports cars, and she could just wake up one day and say: I want to spend the next two days in Rio, books the next available flight and away she goes (in business class).

It was great, she was spontaneous, adventurous, and she had traveled the world.  It was super easy to travel with her, as she knew all the little tricks at the airport - what lounge to use, what type of services to get, etc.

Because of her travels, she had a great perspective on world affairs.  Conversation with her was great, and we could talk about politics, economy, investment, you name it.

The end result?  I couldn't really keep up.  I worked long hours for a financial company (I was like those Japanese salary men you see on the news, but better paid), and even though I made good money, it was pennies compare to her family fortune - too many zeroes missing.  Although I could afford to travel spontaneously with her, I just didn't have the time to do it without impacting my work.  She eventually met a senior executive of a large public company (guy has a private jet!), and they fell in love and got married. 

It was a beautiful memory while it lasted.  She is a good person, and we had our adventures.  I also had a glimpse into a world that is so different than mine, and I realized that what made her happy was freedom.  Freedom to experience and feel.  I have since changed my workaholic life and to focus on work-life balance.  I am more free and happy now than before, and I have her to thank.
A$A$A
I once dated a girl who was the daughter of a Ukrainian nightclub-chain owner who had ties to the criminal underground. He was ASTONISHINGLY rich and she had everything she ever wanted from birth - the best clothes, cars, phones, private education and so on. For her 18th birthday he bought her a Masserati and spent around 2 million dollars on the event, hiring her favorite musician, flying him out to the event in a private jet and so on. He would spare no expense so that his little angel always had whatever she wanted. It was quite an incredible sight for someone coming from a lower-middle class family like myself.

I dated that girl for a little over a year, when she was 22 years old.

And the thing she was constantly complaining about, was that her life was boring and lacked excitement! You might think that having all the money in the world and everything delivered to you on a silver platter is amazing - and don't get me wrong - it most certainly IS! But only to an extent, because you lose something in the process. Life's meant to have its ups and downs, and if you remove either of them - it becomes stale and uninteresting - you won't be able to call it a full journey.

She adored me, because I filled in that void (giggity!) in her life. I wasn't intimidated by her looks or her money and I made her evenings exciting and something she would look forward to. However, I knew that it would only be temporary and we would never be together, because our lifestyles and goals in life clashed entirely!

To have a long-lasting and healthy relationship with someone, your values, ideals, preferences and goals in life have to coincide with that persons' values. And since ours didn't, since we were so fundamentally different - our relationship could only be short-lived, albeit very exciting and fun. That's why I think that abysmally rich people can pretty much almost never have a loving and healthy relationship with someone who grew up poor - you are just too different and you would clash a lot because of it. There are of course exceptions to the rule.

If you enjoyed my post or want dating advice, a follow on Quora is always appreciated.

Peace!
A$A$A
I briefly dated a girl who meets said criteria. According to my experience, more often than not very rich parents have certain plans with their children, mostly due to the fact that the window of opportunity is huge and wide open. Even more often than not, the parents must have worked really hard to earn the money which they themselves did not have growing up, so they want to make sure the children are well supported. Mind you, it is not the same thing as spoiling them. In other words, you can be the best boyfriend by normal standards but the father still knows that he can "give" his daughter five (ten, twenty, 100...) times more than you in terms of opportunities and support. Often, you cannot impress the father of your girlfriend by saying things like "anything can happen and we will do our best" because he knows that the best school for his daughter's career is (for example) Yale, and Yale is where she will go, if she deserves it. Also, it is often very hard for the daughter to be ungrateful and turn down things because the father really means well.

Long story short, it is VERY hard to compete with the girl's rich father. Even if she is not a spoiled brat (cf. Paris Hilton). One has to accept the fact that if the rich father and his daughter have a normal loving relationship, they are going to want to enjoy the money while they can and it takes a lot of character to accept the differences - in both directions.
A$A$A
Permit me to offer a third-party perspective. My college room-mate for two years was born into a billionaire family back when there weren't many of those. If Mom and Dad needed him at home for an event of some sort, they'd send a plane for Friday pickup (they built the planes, so there was never a shortage) and return him in time for class. Needless to say, I suspect, there was no shortage of very attractive young women who wanted to date him. Very, very, few did date him, however. He could have taken advantage of his appeal (he was also quite good-looking) and have had a different girl in his bed every night. Maybe a couple of them. Instead, he sometimes cried himself to sleep from loneliness. He wanted more than beauty and sex. He wanted love. Love for himself and not his money and social prestige. But he couldn't trust that he was being loved. So what was it like to date him? Constant suspicion. Constant doubt. Girls would ask me out to tell me they genuinely loved him, and not for his money. (Someday I may write about what that felt like. Feel free to pose an A2A.) But doubt would creep in. The planes would come and go with only him, never taking someone home to meet the folks. They'd try to fix him up with the daughters of their wealthy friends so that greed and social climbing were not so problematic, but he wanted a good, old-fashioned romance with someone who had no idea of his wealth. I didn't blame him. And then along came a girl so sweet, so unaffected, so obviously happy to sit around the apartment watching TV, never once asking anything more about his family than what his dad did, or if he had any brothers and sisters. Somehow, she had been working so hard at being a student (and a very good one) that she hadn't mentioned him to friends. It was months before he allowed her to find out how wealthy he was. At first, when she learned, a day or two passed and she seemed not to have processed it. Then she told her parents. And the pressure to capture him was immediate and relentless. And she stopped being available. He was heartbroken. She called me one day and asked if we could get together. I accepted immediately. Over coffee, she told me she couldn't see him again because he would never be able to trust her. She would always worry that he was watching for indications that she was after his money. She was afraid of how her parents would act around him and his parents. I told her how unhappy he was to be without her, and begged her to talk it through with him. I got very little sleep for the next few nights as they worked things out between them. In the end, she graduated. He didn't. He disinherited his family, if that's the correct term. He had enough money to open a bar in his home town. They married. He ran the bar. They started a completely new life, free of all the old stuff. Even me, I'm sorry to say. I haven't seen or heard from or about either of them since. I've never looked for them on Facebook or anywhere for that matter. I don't want to know. Nor should you. That was 50 years ago. They still deserve some privacy.
A$A$A
Been dating my current girlfriend for a year and a bit. She’s not rich by any means of multi-billionaire parents, but her parents are millionaires. I am not so fortunate. My parents are living comfortably, but besides for the money to come home one Christmas, they haven’t paid for any of my life past 18. I’ve had to work for everything I own and am in debt attending university. She works, but doesn’t have to, the pressure of being broke isn’t something she experiences.

She lives with me and one of my friends in a cruddy apartment that is mostly inhabited by refugees who come to my country. She doesn’t act rich, nor does she have expensive tastes. The only thing is her experiences wildly differ from mine. A good example is one of her friends inviting her to go to New York for a weekend. Two days before the weekend. And this was something she had to decide about. I am not financially comfortable to fork out the cash to get a flight leaving in two days to go on a glorified shopping trip in a different country.

Now, her being rich is pretty wicked, if I have to be honest. I don’t voluntarily take advantage of her being rich, but it does have its benefits. For the past few months she’s been paying for my share of our groceries, because I can’t afford to buy food. She takes me on nice dates, that I come up with.

Now, when I have money, I make an effort to pay for everything I can. Money to me doesn’t mean anything more than the means of not starving and having a way of paying for things. I don’t hoard it or value it more that it should be.

(This reads a bit disjointed, but my main point I guess is that its pretty swell living/being in a relationship with someone born rich, imo)
A$A$A
It is a great learning experience and I have two different stories worth reading.

I had the privilege to date two women who were very rich. However, I got two very different outcomes.

One woman was younger (early 20s) and grew up rich due to her family. She was literally driving a new car every week and always wanting to shop and spend money. She was a pain in the ass to date because she had no depth, ambition, goals, or values. She knew nothing else but $$$ and a “me me me” mindset. These are the kind of people who people think about when they’re disgusted with the rich. I don’t blame them. In my opinion, this is NOT how the average rich person is. Don’t let media deceive you.

On the other hand, I dated a girl who earned her riches on her own by starting a jewelry business in her garage right when etsy was small and less saturated (she’s off to bigger things now). Her parents didn’t have a lot of money from what I remember but they tried their hardest in giving her the best life possible. She was a VERY humble woman always volunteering, giving to charities (she always gave 5–10% of her total monthly income), and seeing the best in people. Honestly, she was exactly what I needed at the time because I was a cynic and close minded.

She was the hardest worker I have ever met. I came into her life after she made good money but I still saw she was disciplined, committed, and focused on her goals.

It was an honor and blessing to date her. She deserved every penny she earned. She NEVER (and I mean never) played victim. She never made excuses. She took responsibility for every action in her life. This was nice because in the real world, everyone likes to fight and blame others. It was relaxing to date someone and never had to worry about anything. Everyone was under control. She got me to adapt that mindset and frame of mind which I still have today. We NEVER had one of those, “What do you want for dinner I don’t know you choose” moments.

I always tell women: the best characteristic you can ever have in terms of dating is to be a woman who makes a man want to better himself. If he can hang out with you and feel a sudden urge of motivation, energy, joy, and completeness, you are a keeper. That is a one of a kind.
A$A$A
People who are self-made in terms of their wealth are going to have a lot of conflicts with people born into wealth because they will view wealth differently. The self-made person is not going to take money for granted like a person born into wealth, and a person born into wealth might consider the self-made person 'nouveau riche.'

Similarly, middle class people, who value hard work and upward mobility, are going to have a problem with people who have unearned privilege in many cases. There might be a clash in terms of values in cases like these.

However, some poorer people aren't going to care. Many of them are just going to be happy to be in a relationship with someone who has wealth. This might make the wealthy partner feel insecure. However, poor people often consider the entire system corrupt and arbitrary, because they have been able to benefit from it the least. They know that most privilege is unearned and that being rich or poor is often an accident, and they might be less judgmental of a person born into wealth compared to a self-made rich or middle class person.

Middle class people might feel that the rich person is spending money frivolously because they are used to saving. Self-made rich people might feel the same way, because they are used to investing. However, poor people are often used to just spending money, because they often don't have enough to save or invest in the first place.

Obviously, these are just trends, and it all depends on the person. However, people who are born rich are often either better off dating someone like them, or someone who is actually poor.

The Habits That Rich People Live By
A$A$A
I dated a guy who was the son of a famous tech pioneer and it taught me a great deal about what I want to give my child (and what I don't want to give my child) in life.

First, we dated for about four years and he is someone who will always be very special to me. He was not a trust fund kid - to begin with he always had the spectre of parents who were more creative, smarter and more successful than he will ever be. He had a drive to make a place for himself in the world- and while his parents gave him some advantages (a first class education, good genes, seed money and connections) he was extremely hard working. This seemed to run in his family. His older sister was a lawyer, a medical doctor and had a PhD in Sociology.

He was/is a really caring person (he liked to help old ladies, AIDS patients and frends down on their luck) and he had a great deal of passion for his work. He loved architecture, films and literature and we had a blast brainstorming everything from Victorian color schemes to plot points for the movies we wanted to make.

The downside is that he was extremely suspicious of people and had a sense of his superiority that was annoying to people (like me) who were forced to deal with mundane reality. He treated me well but during the whole relationship - I felt like the girfriend in the box (He took me out when he had time between very important meetings). I was very, very concious of our income gap and struggled to pay for dinners I couldn't afford just to feel like I wasn't taking advantage.

The presents were beyond fabulous. He bought me a (real) illuminated manuscript and 19th c. Russion icon because I was studying history. He took me on surprise trips out of the blue and bought me clothes and toiletries because I had no warning to pack. That part was super-fun.

I eventually broke up with him. We had plans to move in together and he backed out at the last minute (after building our dream home.) Soon after, I lost a baby and he left me in the hospital to go to a business meeting. He had so much to prove that my love would never be enough and I doubt I would ever be a full human to him. Besides, I was not the right class or religion and could not walk in his world.

I sometimes Google him. I understand that he is on his second marriage. He financed his own production company  to the tune of over $20m. His design skills are heralded. He looks older but also exactly the same. I read the press and I am positive that he is exactly the same. I miss him but I will never date a rich guy again.
A$A$A
If someone confuses his /her partner to be more of an ATM card then perhaps dating a RITCHIE RICH is a synonym for absolute bliss for him /her.

The RICHNESS QUOTIENT I feel , is an interesting determinant in a relationship and perceptions of both the “person in the relationship “ and the “ person with whom he/she is in the relationship “ regarding the interpretations of “Rich” decide the health of the relationship.

If by the word RICH, all you associate is lavish living, designer labels - basically the life is a party syndrome; you might say dating a RITCHIE RICH or a SOCIETY BUTTERFLY is the best thing to have ever happened to you. However I believe that eventually every relationship boils down to a deep friendship nurtured by acceptance , affection and understanding of each other. It is here that the real test starts and it takes no cognizance of the RICH factor in material or worldly terms of glitz and glamour. Here the RICHNESS is all about wisdom, focus, commitment to stick with each other in rain or shine is all that takes the centre stage.

Trust me when I say that it is the RICHNESS and DEPTH of thoughts , wisdom and knowledge that actually dictate the long-term health and happiness of a relationship allowing some amount of physical and emotional support and strength that you provide to each other.
A$A$A
I dated a girl that was descended from royalty in Nigeria.

She spend her summer's in St Tropez in a boat. Had a mansion in Notting Hill. And here I was as a working class boy with 8 of us growing up in a 3-bedroom house dating her.

Not knowing she was any of those things helped when we first started dating as it turned out.

She was heavily into theatre and art. Would attend fashion shows and was being shown Nigerian men from time to time that would flutter and fall at her feet.

She wanted the opposite of what she was offered; or had access to. She found entitlement and wealth unattractive and was more wowed by hard edges and street smarts.

I did better in that category. But as I stepped further into her world. The fine dining. Discussions of politics and art. And lack of focus on 'making it' in this big bad world were devoid in the conversation

That we WERE ultimately from two different worlds meant we didn't last

Dating her was wonderful. The adventure of it being somewhat 'illicit' was great. But the reality of my working class roots versus her affluence were forever the elephant in the room
A$A$A
It's so very hard to answer this question. I typed and deleted a good few times. I'm a woman born to wealthy parents whose partner came from a middle class background. I have dated several people who are of the same background as me as well. I left my parents' roof and stopped using the family's money when I got together with him, and have not been involved in the family's business much ever since - except a few odd cases when they needed help and all my cousins were not enough.

BORN rich means we have wealthy parents, and that money can afford a lot of things. Even if our parents want us to learn to be independent, we would end up having helpers in the house. Whatever housework I've learnt, it was entirely because my parents want me to know them so I'm not entirely alienated from it all and end up being a spoilt brat. I was taught how to clean by our maids, who never really succeeded in her teaching, which means till this day, I have no idea how to properly clean a house. I can expertly organise and oversee a factory move - that is one of the things you learn as you observe the family's work, but I cannot clean my own place. That's one of the things my partner learnt when we first started living together. After a decade, he gave up on teaching me the art of cleaning. He will do the majority of it while dictating to me what he wants me to help with. Usually I just stay on the sofa or cook and try not to irritate him while he cleans. My family's cook, however, succeeded way beyond my parents' expectation. I enjoy cooking complicated dishes. I enjoy baking. I know how to make comfort food as well. However, as my partner tells me, apparently whatever I cook, it's still 'posh' for him. He grew up with his mom knowing to cook a handful of very simple dishes and plating the food is not a thing in his family. My parents' cook would have called those dishes a hotpot randomly and carelessly thrown together. To him, I'm a picky eater. To my family, I was a very agreeable child in terms of food. Housework... There's also laundry, which to me means separation of clothes into many piles for different washes - dry cleaning, different colour, hot wash, cold wash, ect. To him it only means everything into the washing machine and then dryer, except for his suits that is dry cleaned. Basically, in term of housework, what I know is how to run a household (because my parents don't want me to be a spoilt brat - they wanted me to marry a man of similar background and run his house). My partner knows how to do housework with just one person or two. It took a lot of adjusting and compromise when we first moved in together. We're happy now, except I occasionally get weirdly tinted clothes, and he gets annoyed because he came back to quite a messy house after a week of working offshore.

This difference in upbringing bleeds to many aspects of life as well. The car we drive. The plane seats we choose. I was brought up going to operas and plays and museums and exhibitions as a form of recreational activity - also as a form of socialisation, meeting people, forming and maintaining connections. I had never known street food before we started dating. I had never understood the need to look at the price column when dining in a restaurant. He had never been to an art gallery opening. He had never been to a proper hotel - it was motels for him. He didn't know fine dining. His world and my world, the circles we moved in was entirely different. As I left the family (it was partially because they didn't approve of him, but mostly because I didn't want to live my life for the family's image anymore), I no longer have access to money the way I did, so now we live life pretty much like other middle class couples. Date nights here and there, bills that we pay ourselves, a little place with no servants and no need keep up appearance all the time. It's very different to what I was brought up to know, but it's mine, and the decisions we make are ours - it's a luxury my cousins would never know. I know he never thought he would be with someone whose parents offer to set up a company in his name for him just so we'd be back as part of the family, but we are not taking that route, so we'll just deal with things as they come. It's a little like culture differences, it's not a bad thing, it's just different.
A$A$A
I lived with a prince from the Saudi, ottoman empire line. At first, a month or so, he was circumspect about it. But he had a shoe obsession and line d my extremely long hallway, 30 feet with shoes, boots, beautiful, garish, all clearly expensive. At some point I realized it was about 50$k in shoes alone. His last name was also slightly famous and he was graduating from the best private college in America. The jig was up.

he finally divulged his parents identity and net worth. He wanted us to move to a bigger apartment, Park avenue, his father would pay for it. His student visa was about to expire so I was concerned that I would be stuck in a five k a month fan apartment if he had to leave. His father was traveling, looking to purchase a new helicopter and he was eyeing a $75k Navigator.

personally he was effete. He seemed effeminate but it was actually European mannerisms and attitude. He was conscious of money but not budgeting. Love to him meant alleviating all of my concerns, like work. He was impressed at my work ethic because his father had started from nothing but baffled that it continued while I was with him. He was generous but deeply touched that I shared resources with him first, left him alone in my apartment. I think he'd learned to be with less material things in college so my enormous three bedroom with a fire place felt normal, he objected to it being in queens. Little things----clothes, food, etc he knew, expected on a higher level. He was comfortably entitled but not wholesale arrogant.

it was nice, is nice to say I lived with a royal prince for awhile. Shades the love album well.
A$A$A
In a driveway with two very expensive cars she drove a very humble car.

While she did throw great birthday parties, she largely earned every dollar of her spending money.

Her father, a business executive, and her mother, a lawyer, were both very kind. Not suprisingly, she was very intelligent and kind as well.

Not all rich people are arrogant. Not all poor people are humble. It all depends on how their parents choose to raise them.
A$A$A
I dated a boy in college who came from a very wealthy family. My family is well off (my dad is a car dealer) but this was another level.

I found that I could not respect him. My parents had instilled strong work ethic in me from a young age. They made me get a job at 16 and buy my first car (despite my dad owning car dealerships!) and work my way through college. I paid my own expenses. I was my own person. I hated it at the time but now I appreciate it.

The boy I dated however, this was not the case. He drove a Ferrari. Cool right? I didn’t think so. His daddy bought it. His daddy’s name was on the title and his daddy paid the gas and insurance. I would rather he drove a toyota corolla he bought himself. He would swing by and pick me up from the sorority house and all the girls would sigh and go “oh you are so lucky!”

He would take me to swanky places and buy me nice presents, jewelry and purses. But in the back of my mind I was wickedly thinking I should send his parents a thank you note. They are the ones paying for my nice presents, not him!

He had never worked a day in his life. After a while I broke up with him because I knew I could never respect someone who didn’t do anything to support himself. He graduated college and got a nice job (you guessed it, his dad helped him get). After a few months he got fired because he had no work ethic. He is now living with his parents and is unemployed. His trust fund kicks in soon so I doubt he will ever work honestly.

I graduated college in three years despite working 40 hours a week throughout. I got a great job in my field immediately and am in the process of buying my first home (on my own, no parents needed). I will be 23 this year.

My parents have a big fancy house and very nice cars. Their bank account could buy me ten houses cash. But the way they raised me would make me be dirt poor and living in the streets before I asked them for a dime. I am proud to support myself. I love my parents and visit them often. They often ask “Oh do you have groceries, do you need tires on your car, do you need a new car?” and I wave them off. I am an adult now and I can’t count on my parents assisting me. One day everything they have will be passed down to me, and perhaps then I will be ready to retire. But for now I work my hours and drive my used car that I own outright. And don’t date people whose parents pay for everything :)
A$A$A
I can't speak for my partners true feelings, only what they conveyed, but when I dated people they don't seem to understand that the money wasn't mine. Not only was it not in my bank account (parents still alive) but even so, it wasn't money I had earned, therefore wasn't mine to squander away silly willy, no matter what people thought. If anything, I had an obligation to use that money wisely and replenish the family money, for future generations. But people just couldn't understand it. Not to mention, I hadn't had financial help since i was 18, i wasn't much different to them.

It was also interesting how one boyfriend seemed to cast himself in this penniless poverty stricken role just because his parents didn't have as much money as mine, yet the children attended private schools all their lives and lived in a home 3 times the price of ours, and had 3 cars, one which got renewed every 2 or so years. It blew my mind that he could not see his own privileges and luxuries and acted like he came from hardship just he thought my family was richer than his.

(We actually had about the same, only his parents spent it on cars and houses and fancy schools, and mine lived more modestly, so we could travel more. It's all about how you spend it.)

Money, especially if you're born into it, does foster some resentment and slightly warps perceptions, as well as breeds some strange sense of entitlement just because they're dating someone they consider richer than most.
A$A$A
She wasn’t necessarily “born rich.” But she definitely grew up in a privileged lifestyle due to her father’s accumulation of wealth along the years. Although her parents both owned luxury vehicles. She drove a modest car.

During that relationship, I realized that people are lucky to be privileged. But it’s not their fault that they haven’t experienced anything outside of wealth. The struggles, the hard work , the loss of sleep, everything it took to get there.

According to my perspective, I “went through more,” because I grew up poor, and that’s not necessarily true.

See, everyone goes through almost an equal amount of pain or pleasure, but with different things. For her, doing things on her own was hard. I always pushed her to be independent, but it was tough due to her parents doing everything for her. I tried my best to have some empathy but I only understood so much.
A$A$A
One of my friends is not just wealthy, but is the scion of a family whose weath is almost unimaginable.

We aren't in a romantic relationship, but we share many interests, love spending time together, and dine out frequently. We can't stop talking. Roman history, philosophy, French literature, art, music.

Each of us has joked, in fact, that it's too bad he isn't gay. We're that compatible.

What it's like being close friends with this particular very wealthy person is not something I ever much think about. My buddy is not a flashy guy. He doesn't throw money around and, in fact, he actually works for a living.

But there are certain things I have to do.

“No, I'm sorry, I can't afford that restaurant right now,” is something I have had to learn to say.

And he's learned to be sensitive to my budget considerations.

Other than that, the fact that his family has more money than God has no impact on our friendship at all.
A$A$A
In theory, it shouldn’t be any different if you are in love with each other.

In practice, it’s a lot harder than what most people think. I dated a very rich girl before and here are the difficulties I encountered:

You get a lot of secret flak from her family and friends on how you’re just using her for her money even though it’s not true. One of her friends called me “shady” for hanging around with her in the beginning. Whenever she gave me things, our classmates would secretly talk about me, that I’m just using her for her money as well. When we fought, people also speculated that it’s about money.

When she has a car and you don’t, she’ll say she’s ok with driving but eventually it gets to her that she’s driving you around. It’s because her friends usually give her remarks on why she’s driving a guy around.

There are things which she does which you can’t participate in, such as golf, VIP events or international travel. Heck, she invited me to a country club event but I had to decline because I didn’t have a suit.

You are always in doubt whether you’ll marry her or whether she’ll marry you because you definitely can’t give her the life she’s used to even if you work your ass off in the next 10 years. Just for the record, she ended up marrying a guy richer than her.
A$A$A
It really wasn't all that different from dating someone who wasn't born rich.

It is important to understand that the money isn't and wasn't theirs. It was their grandparents' and their parents' money. Certainly, they didn't have to worry about a lot of the things that I had to worry about e.g. paying for school, transportation, health care, housing.

Both women worked part-time while they attended college. They were at least semi-independent. They both had in-case-of-emergency credit cards with sickening credit limits, but they never used them.

Nothing exciting.

I can tell you one thing though, when I had a health problem and my parents weren't able to help me out as much as she thought they should, she resented them for it. I couldn't blame her because I resented them for it as well.
A$A$A
I've been with people who had financial issues and in moments of rage I've been told that

I am spoiled and I want the best of everything

I am insensitive to problems

I live in luxurious tower away from real problems.

Most of these accusations were not true because I didn't ask for aanything. However yes, I was raised in a house where we seek comfort before anything else. We buy good quality gadgets so we don't have to worry about fixing stuff around the house every now and then.

These things seemed normal until I lived in a dorm with other people. I don't know I think they get cynical and mean no matter how hard you try to consider their feelings.
A$A$A
I have a great experience of this.

When we were to meet at a common place my ride would be one of these…

And if I was very lucky and parents allowed me to. . then it would be a Bajaj CT 100

And she used to come in

When we decided to shop together the brands I would lool for were-

Levi's

Woodland

Or if parents were very happy from me that day I would get to buy a Calvin Klein only one though and with strict rule go there only and only if there is a sale in that store.

But she used to go for rather fancy brands most of those ladies brand names I dont even remember. But yes I remember quite well that my whole budget on monthly shopping was less that the cost of her one dress.

You can never ever stop at a road side vendor. Even though it was your favourite panipuri stall. If you wanted to have panipuri you had to go to a good and standard outlet and pay around 10 times for the same no. Of panipuris and that too having bad taste. Or eat alone.

I had an iphone 5s then she had an iphone 6s and samsung s6.

She was very judgemental. She used to notice the smallest details about a person and his behaviour and criticise them later if they were not good. Where as I was very lenient on this.

Her holiday destinations used to be Paris, Switzerland. My used to be Nukkad wala ground playing cricket with friends and if the vacation is long then Fiji.

The gifts that I received included an i pod, an LV belt and many more. The frequency was also very high. While my gifts included flowers, chocolates and some more flowers. Frequency was way less than hers. ;)

She always brought up her high upbringing. It mattered to her more than love. For me it always was about love.

I had a big heart she had a big pocket and a big ego.

She was very serious about this relationship. I was not that serious. I recently got to know she still has my phone number saved as ‘Husband' in her phone. In my phone her contact saved as Aastha. :)

Image source: random google searches.
A$A$A
I dated someone who was like super rich, i come from an upper middle class family.

The difference was i was striving to become better at everything possible so it will help me in my future. I would want to participate in fests, go to workshops, learn new skills etc. she just did not want to do any of those things. She wanted to always go out to malls and have fun, do shopping and enjoy every day. I just could not keep up with her.

She did not have to have that push of having to grow or earn money because she was already pretty rich.

She did love me but she wanted me to spend more time with her. I just could not keep up with my life and hers. It does get frustrating at times.
A$A$A
It's very very different
A$A$A
It is not the wealth, but the education.

I’ve been married for 6 years. I can only my wife’s family’s net worth might be around $20 million dollars. They are good people. My wife is a very good person, she owns a small business that keeps her busy and motivated and is definitely a very good mom.

It’s good to have money, it’s great to be wealthy, I, myself come from a somewhat affluent family, I never needed anything, I went to a private school, I have traveled the world. But, a great issue I have related to my wife’s wealth, is that it didn’t came with a good education. By that, I mean that my wife and her brothers do not know the real value of money. They have been spoiled. They don’t know hard work and hard earned money. They think everything is disposable. They believe they must get the best of everything. It is much frustrating to think that my kids are going to have at least a bit of that kind of education.

I’ve had many conversations with my wife about the education we want for our kids, and she agrees that they have to learn hard work and effort, that they should earn what they want. I believe that is the only way to get real happiness, making your own way through life. But, she’s hardwired other way, so it’s going to be a struggle.

Money is very important. But sometimes it can stand in the way of happiness. Sometimes I wonder how people that have made so much money can be so stupid.
A$A$A
I had a year long relationships with a rich woman. She was older than me, had three kids.

Overall it was difficult. Back then I was in a low-earning job. She didn't have to work, and $50 to her was peanuts.

And she was tight with money. At a restaurant for my birthday - I had to pay for myself. All previous and former partners would never allow for this, no matter how broke we both were at the time.

While I paid for myself, she lavished a 50 guest party for her 12 year old's birthday at Planet Hollywood. Stretched limo. The works. I got a scarf.

The sex was great. But she drank heavily, and after a few drinks would begin her tirade against her former husband, who left her for a friend of hers while she was pregnant with their third child. The ex husband and friend left to live overseas. That had all happened about two years prior to our relationship.

In the end, she said she didn't want to live with me, didn't want to marry me. And anyway, I'd had gutful of being treated so poorly.

Probably the least generous (yet by far the most financially wealthy) partner I have ever had. And selfish in many ways.

I learnt that rich people can be just as miserable as anyone else. And she was bored, having no real focus in her life because there was no motivation to work.

We had a few good times, but really - having to pay for everything 50/50 just wasn't gonna work. Not on my wage. And it was non-negotiable.
A$A$A
Dating is not my thing. Never been good at it.

But I once actually was in a relationship with a girl in my high school. It was the first time I was ever going to a co-educating institute. I didn't talk to many people.

Slowly and gradually friendship grew between us.

She took me to all those super cool pubs in Mumbai. I never imagined life could be that extravagant for a 17 year old. The cars they commuted in were only meant to be seen by people like me. But she taught me how to drive them. She brought me out of my burrow. She made me travel along with her to various parts of the country. She cried with me. I silently watched her cry. I don't cry. I prefer to do that at night, alone, when nobody else sees me.

I started having fun with her. I started liking her. I liked her. I started loving her. I loved her. Not because gold. Not because hot. I don't know why. I don't know what it was exactly, but it happened. But I very well knew where it'd end, how it'd end and why it'd end. The vehicles she took to school, I could have one like that if only I was 100x more richer. The house she lived in would also be mine, if I was 1000x more richer. But the heart she had would only be similar to mine if it was 10000x more kinder.

She flew away. I knew she would. Her parents sent her abroad to get some education. My parents belong to the middle class. I love them. They have done more than anyone else would ever do for us to not have any worse survival conditions than they had. I am thankful to them for that. But I believe in destiny, let's see.

So fly on

Ride through

Maybe one day I'll fly next to you

Fly on, ride through

Maybe one day I can fly with you

Fly on

                                                                                                                          `Coldplay

fin!
A$A$A
I’ve dated two people who were rich, though not obnoxiously rich.

The first was arrogant, self-centered, and full of pride about being rich. Our relationship was never serious, and she merely wanted me as a sort of prize or fill-in. When I met her family, her mother went on and on about how famous the family was, including some who had argued before the US Supreme Court.

That relationship didn’t last - I wasn’t blind to what was going on, but hoped for change.

The second was much longer. The lady was very honorable in her own right. Her mother was exceedingly interested in status and control. She was never in favor of our union, and was a brash individual who obsessed over every detail. Her husband was meek and quiet - so quiet that one often had to ask him to speak up. (This was an anesthetist in a local hospital.)

This lady was a very nice lady, and I still have fond memories of her. Her family tried to limit our time together, and controlled access to her in many ways. (They even went out of their way to insist their son and I had never been in the same school - a complete lie.)

While she herself was a decent person, her family did her no favors.
A$A$A
It depends so much on the person there is not one answer to this. I've been in a seven year relationship with a wealthy man who was born in a rich upper class family, not just money but old money. He obviously had more than I had, but we had our arrangements. If he wanted to take me for dinner to a fine restaurant I'd invite him to drinks afterwards. We reciprocated proportionally with our own means. If he suggested a vacation plan that was beyond my possibilities he would pay for the big expenses and I would take care of smaller things. We both knew where we were standing and there was respect. At some point the relationship deteriorated and we had arguments but they were never about money. Still today he's a dear friend of mine.
A$A$A
She didn't know real adversity & would consequently complain over every little thing & was prone to crying as a result of things like being lost & being rained on.  Never finished anything & had no work ethic.  Grew up in a family that prioritized money & "status" above ethics & assumed this to be true of the aggregate society, which led her to prioritize money above ethics (ethics are informed by beliefs about societal norms).  Also, the deprivation of love & affection that resulted from the priority on money led her to feel entitled to cheat others.  Combination of low adversity experienced & mediocre intelligence led her to be espouse libertarian political views.  In all, not a person that anyone could be proud of being with, so I stopped it.
A$A$A
This completely depends on what you mean by rich. When I grew up my family was comfortably in the 1% but wasn’t crazy rich (big house in an expensive town, a couple yearly vacations to expensive places with all of us, no student loans or scholarships, don’t have to worry about money within reason) so I can speak to the lower end of ‘rich’ but have no idea what it’s like if someone is Richard Branson rich. I have never felt like the people I date are after my family’s money or that they are interested in me for it.

It can be hard for both people for reasons other than that someone is just after money. The other person will have obligations or be in situations that I will never understand. There are a lot of little things that are hard to relate to and can be frustrating for both people. Basically, if they were born rich but not RICH!! then it takes understanding on both your parts to try to see things from the other person’s perspective.
A$A$A
I m in a relationship with a guy very very rich. We have known each other for seven years now and are in a relationship for last five years.

I don't remember there's even a single time he has not stood with me. He has supported me in all odds. He cooks for me, he listen to all my talks whether silly or meaningful,always understands me. He is a very simple person, respects everyone and is very helpful.

Financially, we both belong to middle class but he is the richest person i have ever seen in terms of integrity, humanity and respect for others.
A$A$A
Not all people are like this but I will explain my experience from college.

She was very nice, kind and loving.

But she had no adult skills at all. She didn’t even know how to balance a checkbook.

She seemed new to relationships and was very insecure.

She didn’t understand why I couldn’t take her out to a $50 a plate restaurant every time.

She didn’t understand why I had to work my way through college and why I had to save my money. She had no concept of saving money, her dad gave her a credit card and he paid for everything.

We had major cultural differences. I had to work for everything, she had almost everything given to her.

While we cared for each other very much I knew it would not work out, so we eventually broke up. That’s the worst, when you love someone but you know you have to break up.
A$A$A
I wasn’t in a relationship, I was married to someone who was wealthy. Not mind boggling rich but wealthy enough that she could affors to do or buy anything she wanted - like a car - out of her checkbook.

We had a pre-nup to preserve her interest in the family money and I understood. While we were married, life lost a bit of flavor because there was never anything I wanted that I didn’t have. We went and did and bought whatever.

In her previous life she just walked away from anything unpleasant she couldn’t change with money. The marriage eventually broke up because she didn’t understand the need to deal with any serious problems.

She had always handled the finances so when we did split, I was in a panic because I had no idea if I could live on what I made so, for a few months, I lived very parsimoniously until I understood how far I could go with what I had.

Don’t misunderstand, she was a nice person, just used to having what she wanted because she always had.
A$A$A
Ask my girlfriend.

No, sorry, that was flippant (and totally inaccurate). During my relatively well-cushioned life in West London, I met and got to know a lot of well-heeled people, some with old money, some nouveau riche, and some real out-and-out hustlers.

Some of them were really nice people, others were totally horrible, just like people without so much money. So I guess it's not always the bank account that makes you actually a pleasant person, but not having to worry about where the next meal is coming certainly makes you more relaxed about things (and maybe that translates into a nicer person?)
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What is the biggest misconception Indians have about NRI's life?
A$A$A
Thanks for A2A.

Disclaimer: I think every answer needs a disclaimer now a days because people do not take it as a question and answer, but rather assume things.

This is an answer to a question “Biggest” misconception Indians have about NRI’s life

This is not an answer to complain about my life in the USA. I am living a happy life, learning and taking up new challenges every day.

This is not an answer to discourage people who wants to come to the USA and live here

This is not an answer to show that Indian people are ignorant of what is going on in other countries

This is an answer that focuses on majority of population in India. The non internet users who do not know anyone who live abroad and base their knowledge on just medium like TV, movies where the reality is never shown. I noticed that these people are not even taken into account. Only 34% of the total population in India are internet users. This is an important piece of information how many communicate with other part of the world.

Of course for Quora users this answer might seem exaggerated. Even I came across some ‘educated’ friends living in metro cities assuming that I can buy them iphones because I earn in dollars.

Now read the answer. Valid arguments are appreciated.

Most important points are already covered in other answers.

These are some more of the misconceptions:

How Indians assume NRIs in the USA live like:

Reality is we live in one of the apartments in such places sharing a 2 BHK with 4 people:

Rent depends on the location. For instance I lived in Charlotte in an apartment which costed $950-$1000. My share was $300-$400 per month.

Now I live in Los Angeles and the costs are much higher. 1 BHK is starts from $1500 in a decent neighborhood (Near Santa Monica).

Misconception of how Indians eat as NRIs with lavish food:

Reality. I cook everyday. Something like this:

Misconceptions about the money we have:

I think a lot and read a lot about how I can save money to repay my loans and help my family:

Misconceptions about the free life. The fact is, as alien workers/students we are always tied up to a VISA!! Either F1, F1 OPT, H1B.

Currently, it takes more than 15 years for NRIs to get a Green Card (for the ones who want to live in the US).

I can’t speak for everyone but this is most common misconception I heard. How NRIs party and the clothes they wear:

The reality is, NO. One thing to remember is we were brought up in a conservative culture and not everyone can be so open and liberal in just few years of living abroad.

Misconceptions about the cars NRIs own:

Reality:

life is not a luxury unless we work for it. No one’s is. I worked on campus and internships to pay my tuition and for my living because it is difficult for Indian parents to send money to each and everything.

What have I learnt from all these “struggles”. I don’t really see them as struggles but as a learning experience. I would have never been me today if I haven’t lived abroad and learnt to do things on my own.

It is not comfortable always. We learned to adjust, share and deal with things we never imagined to.

We cannot be unemployed because we won’t be allowed to stay in the US without a job (if we are tied to a visa).

I would be happy if people living in India stop expecting expensive gifts when their NRI friends, cousins and relatives visit India once a while.

Image credits: Pinterest, google images.

Cheers!
A$A$A
There was a tendency from people here to list just the problems NRIs face in their daily lives and how these aren't understood by locals back home. However, in my experience the truth is a mixed bag. Here's my observations -

Money - This is a double edged sword. Some people believe since you are earning in a currency higher than INR, you are raking in money or there are the exact opposite who believe that due to high expenses, people barely make it. The truth is somewhere in the middle. You aren't short really if you have a decent full time job - you don't swim in money either.

Quality of life - Is in general much better in my opinion, like the conception back home. However, since most NRIs can't really afford maids and nannies they do more household work than they would back in India. That doesn't really mean your life doesn't have any quality, you focus on your house more generally.

Loneliness - One thing people fail to realize is that people are different. I, for one, absolutely enjoy being on my own most of the time. So, loneliness is hardly a concern for some. Yes, festival, special occasions you miss home more than normal, but as such you are busy, have a life, so you wouldn't necessarily go into depression.

Quality of life 2 - Different point but I've met a few who absolutely detest the way they think NRIs live. In a sharing environment, cramped for room, living on burgers and bread - again that's not always the case and many families and now even many single adults actually do stay alone on rent, including me! People come and stay abroad for different reasons, one may need to pay back loans, save and hence willingly stays in a sharing scenario, some don't need to and others simply don't. It's not rosy being alone, but then again even in sharing, it's much better than sharing for bachelors back in India. Been there, done that.

Patriotism - Choosing to live abroad does not equate you to not loving your place. It's a cheap thought to look down at someone still prevalent in today's modern city people. You leave your village or smaller town to come to a bigger city, doesn't mean you detest where you came from. It's just opportunities. Apply that on a larger scale. Migration has been happening for centuries.

Racism - Last point, and this is a think I'm tired of hearing. I'm not going to say it doesn't happen when it clearly does to many migrants. However, what I will say is to always look at it in perspective. It doesn't happen to everyone. It might as well happen to you abroad and back at home as well. Sorry to say, but India's fixation with fair skin, caste and how someone just looks has always been there. People are rude to you on the road sometimes, in offices sometimes, at public places sometimes and the other they're nice to you. That's all there is. People. Some are weird. Some are nice. It's the same abroad, actually in my experience I've met most who are actually nice. You can't make life decisions by thinking what the uneducated think of you - stay in a place where crime is less, stick to your own business and you'd decrease the chances further.
A$A$A
I have been living in the United States since the past 2 years, and I am a deemed NRI according to Indian law. Below are explanations to some of the biggest misconceptions I have seen among my Indian friends and relatives:

We don't go around flirting and having sex with Americans. The burden of finances incurred by our parents and the rigorous coursework is enough to grill most of our time. The remaining time is devoted to cooking, cleaning, and working out. Also, do not stereotype Americans as easy to get. They are human beings, just like us.

We are paid well in the industry but please don't convert $150,000 to INR 1,00,00,000. Atleast twenty-five percent of the amount goes into taxes and another 30% for rent and living. Yes, if you save well and are not a spendthrift, you can save 40–45% of the money.

We do want to come back. We love the US lifestyle but most of our social lives are miserable. It's hard to make friends as everyone is extremely busy with their own lives. I have started feeling aloof in just two years. There's a constant jitter between our mind and heart whether to go back or stay.

We are not dream guys for Indian women. We are well qualified and well paid but a lot of Indian women would not sacrifice their career, friends, and families to live in a completely foreign land (especially US, which is like 8000 miles away). And why should they?

Life isn't easy for us. The glamor you see on Facebook and Instagram posts are accompanied by constant anxiety about H1-B laws, saving holidays to travel home, and managing household all by ourselves. Unless you are a millionaire, you cannot afford personal janitors and/or chefs.

Yes, staying abroad has it's own tremendous amount of perks and advantages, but the cons are not limited.

Peace!

EDIT:

Some people have pointed out that it is indeed true that NRIs get more marriage proposals. While this may be the case, and I don’t have the numbers to support my claim, but how many of you think that the proposal is solely from the girl rather than their parents? Even today, parents do fix alliances without asking their daughters.
A$A$A
Perhaps the biggest misconception Indians have about NRI's is with regards their net-worth.

Most folks read of NRIs like Sundar Pichai [US$1.2 billion(2017)] and Satya Nadella (is the highest paid CEO in the US with a salary of $84.3 million) and assume NRIs must have similar net-worth.

Far from it.

The class of NRIs include construction workers in Dubai

… cooks in Indian restaurants in California

And everyone else in-between (including folks like self).
A$A$A
I dont know if its right to post my answer here, but anyways seafarers like me spend more than 183 days outside india and hence we are considered nri for taxation purpose.

A little insite into the life of seafarers.

1.Ships are always in a state of motion be it the usual swaying movement or heavy rolling or pitching. This constant motion leads many to seasickness.

2. Sea voyages expose the ship’s crew to extreme temperature and weather conditions especially during long voyages spanning many countries or continents. Such long voyages take the ships to the bitter cold of Alaska or Scandinavia and also to the hot and humid conditions of the tropical region or the Persian Gulf.

3. The physical health of the seaman is at risk all the time because of the extreme toiling conditions. Long and continuous exposure to direct sunlight or harsh weather while working on the deck or extremely high temperature and noisy environment in the engine room can lead to health complications.

4.The biggest challenge that a seafarer faces is time they have stay apart from their loved ones, family and friends. The sailors have to overcome and constantly fight their feelings of homesickness.

5. Piracy is not a thing of the past, pirates of the present have heavy duty weapons and better equipment. They pose a great threat to lives of seafarers.

6. It is said that out of sight is out of mind. Maintaining a romantic relationship when you are at sea for months at a time is not easy. Not a lot of people who are involved with the seafarers understand the challenges and need for such a life. Hence, maintaining an interpersonal relationship becomes a major challenge.

7. Living on board, seeing the same faces day-in and day-out can become monotonous.

8. Society thinks seafareres are all about the 3 W’s ( wealth,wine and women).

9. Around 90% of world trade is carried by the international shipping industry. Without shipping the import and export of goods on the scale necessary for the modern world would not be possible.
A$A$A
Living in USA currently, and comparing the misconceptions people have commonly. It is my humble request to the readers to look at the big picture, and not on how individuals chose to live their lives here. I am stressing on big picture as every individual is dependent on the system that provides it facilities for survival. Just looking at handful of rich NRIs is same as looking at handful of rich in India, and then assuming, everyone is rich in India. My focus is not on Individuals who failed or succeeded, the focus in on the System thats in place. This system allows Indians to migrate to different countries and people’s lives are governed by the system they live in :

Standard of Living: Earning in Dollars doesn’t equate to living a lavish life. In India, people convert USD to INR and forget that NRIs need to spend the money in USA and not in India. The system forces you to spend at each and every step - for health - you need insurance, you need cars due to lack of public transportation (includes taking loans, insurance). The cost of living is high and people aren't aware of the system (Loans, Rent, Education, Healthcare, Repairs, Emergencies) that exists here.

Cycle of Debt: Financial system in USA makes sure that everyone who is in USA has some or the type of debt in form of credit card, loans (car, house), rent. Moreover the system exploits you when you are vulnerable, when in emergencies the cost of the same facility is doubled (people have lost their life savings).

Education for International Students: Every student who comes to USA doesn’t necessarily get funds. Coming for education in USA on F1 visa is a heavy investment of at least 20–30 Lakhs.

Education for Children of NRIs: Its costly affair even for NRIs with children. I see my managers at high posts need to hire a Nanny to look after their small children (0–3 years if both parents are working). Then they need to put the children in day care after school. Sending to school is costly affair as well. Further, children have extra activities and sending children to college is a nightmare (now average cost for college has gone uptown $60,000 USD per year = $240,000 for a degree = equivalent to buying a house).

Career: No Work-Life balance and Office Politics Exist here as well, this isn’t to ignore companies that value it. There definitely are companies that treat employees very well ensuring work-life balance. On the other hand, there are companies that value customers and expect employees to be available for them at any point in the day. I have worked for companies and have seen in person, the shady business tactics and politics that take place in Companies. Firing in USA is quite common and the company has no accountability when laying off/firing any employee. They will not think twice before doing it. No matter how hard you’ve worked or how committed you have been if they have decided to lay you off, you are laid off.

Career: You are expected to put in your whole attention to maintain your job. This leaves you hardly anytime for relaxing and spending time with family. Every weekend, people either do the house work or leave for small vacations, creating a hectic cycle. This is a trap to keep you occupied from one work to another, leaving no room for introspection.

Career: If you think Merit works here, thats a misconception. More than merit, Fear, Insecurity works here and to some extent, personal connections and networking. No matter how hard you work, you are always insecure and unstable owing to economic system.

Mirage of Comforts: All the pictures of vacation, luxury cars are a front, with a background of high expenses. Its rather a motivation to work harder so that one can spend money on vacation and other luxuries.

Not so Safe for Women: This is a common assumption, which is often used as reasoning for staying abroad. No one is safe as long as there exists poverty, inequality, unemployment and other factors that perpetuate crime. There exists objectification, Eve teasing and other forms of harassment.

No Family Life: Two individuals or Four (if children), lead their own lives with no connectivity as most parents need to work to maintain a good financial balance and children spend their time in school and day care. Members meet at dinner table.

No Family Life: After looking at the above points, it makes sense to not have frequent flights to India, leaving hardly any room for connectivity with Parents and extended family as we save all our vacation to travel home every year and then after few years, that reduces to once in two or more years.

Permanent Unstability: Finally, coming to settlement, owing to visa transitions, green card waiting times, it takes away the most productive life of people, to save for retirement and think of settling anywhere abroad. Going abroad doesn’t equate to a stable life.

Modern day slaves are not in Chains but in Debt.

At the end of the day, I am grateful to USA for allowing me to study and experience life here.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
When did you first realize you were wealthy?
A$A$A
It was sometime in early 2000s, which was a fair few years in to my career as an engineer.

I was traveling from Bangalore (it was not Bengaluru then!) to my home town Davanagere in a KSRTC bus.

I have a habit of starting a conversation with a co-passenger. I was talking to this 40-year-old village person.

After getting to know me well, he said, “my cousin has passed 12th Class with distinction, and needs some help to pay college fees for engineering”.

I spontaneously agreed to help her, gave my phone number and he got down in Tumkur. I felt like I knew them for a long time.

I have met her three times so far and the last time I met her was in Mountain View, California in the late 2000s when she was working at the Google headquarters.

Oh yeah! That was the first time I felt I was wealthy enough to financially help someone in need. You don't need to be a millionaire in order to help someone in need.

That feeling is priceless!

Edit - Thank you Quora and OP for reminding me of some important moments and people! They are doing great.
A$A$A
When I Stopped Chasing Money & Earned my Freedom

“I’m giving you a raise… congratulations, we’ll add an extra $2500 to your base annually”. I remember being 21 and being over the moon when my boss told me he’d give me one of the first raises I ever got in my career. Little did I know at the time, $2500 a year really doesn’t go far on a biweekly paycheck once the man takes his pound of flesh in the form of taxes, but I digress. That pay raise put me over the moon and I was so elated that I had an extra $2500. Like an animal thrown a treat, I couldn’t wait for my next raise. I didn’t want to mess up and not get it.

Ever since I started my professional career at 15, I had always chased money. Striving to earn more and more with each passing project/year. I was hungry but that hunger stemmed from an insecurity of not having enough cash of my own at the time. I wanted the big bucks and I wanted them now. I remember being in college and I’d save up to be able to afford a $25 meal once every two months or so at my favorite asian place. It was a luxury for me to be able to eat out as a teenager living in a foreign country by myself on a limited budget. Nonetheless, every dime I had in my name was already pre-calculated in terms of expenses. This led to a very restrictive life of not being able to live on my terms or do the things I wanted to do. Now I wouldn’t trade these tough times for anything as they were my character building days, but I lived a very monotonous, ritual driven life as a result. I woke up, went to school, hung out with friends, came home, cooked dinner, went to the gym to train like a madman, came home worked on my design skills and went to bed; rinse & repeat for about 4 years. This was the best for me in the long term because it made me who I am today, but very boring at the time. My friends took trips and had all sorts of awesome experiences and I couldn’t partake.

Fast forward 5 years and here we are today. Money doesn’t mean much to me today but maybe that’s because my years of monotonous skill building exercises honed my abilities to perform in the marketplace. I live comfortably, I can travel as I please, whenever and where ever I want. I can afford healthcare, good food, and an amazing apartment in one of the best cities in the world. More importantly however, my time is my own. No one dictates what I have to do. If I don’t want to work, I don’t have to. I have enough money to take care of myself and my loved ones in case something happens. Money is just an afterthought now and doesn’t hold the central place in my life/pursuit it did in years past. Maybe that’s just a consequence of getting older and maturing, I don’t know.

I spend my days pursuing what I love to do, design & working with people + enterprise, and money just happens to come in in such a manner that I make way more than I spend. I know I am incredibly blessed to be offered a life like this. In another answer I discussed what wealth means to me now that I’m older:

People that love and care about me

A roof over my head

Nutritious food to eat and clean water to drink

A positive mental attitude, sound mind and a strong spiritual relationship (with God or whatever you believe in)

The ability to seek and provide value through skills and abilities to those around me

Since I have all those things on a daily basis in addition to financial security, I consider myself extremely wealthy!

—

Sidenote: There’s times that I look back on my cash strapped days and fondly remember how great that $25 meal used to taste. Nowadays, I can go drop a few hundred dollars on a fancy meal whenever I wish, but it just doesn’t bring the level of taste, satisfaction and happiness like that meal used to. Maybe it’s because I craved it so much that when I got it, it was exponentially better. Maybe its because life was simpler and as a result my expectations were lower; I’m not sure. As with all things in life as you gain some things you have to lose or change other things. Life’s weird that way…
A$A$A
This is really a good question — and intrigued me to answer!

—

I think it was 5 years back (right before I got married). For almost the entire life, I goal was simple — work hard, earn money and have a good life. Sounds very much like an average Joe, right?

At that time, I knew that I wanted to get married in the next 2–3 years time and I needed the money. Raising a family in Malaysia isn’t really easy. For example, we could get free education until secondary but I wanted the best for my future wife and kid.

The best private hospital, education, life insurance to name a few. The whole 9-yard.

And so, I thought “Alright, I need to save $50,000 a year”.

With the assumption of three years, it would be $50,000 x 3 years = $150,000 (if you are wondering).

I went on to check on my bank account and the multiple saving accounts I created over the past years. You know, just to figure out how much I am saving every month and how much I have right now (at that time).

Bloody hell, it was well over $100,000 at that moment!

I was like “Hold on, this can’t be right. I’m only make around $50,000 a year. So, the figures must be wrong.” Just like most people, I went on to check on the statement.

It didn’t took long before I realized a pattern.

Every month, money were transferred from my current account to my saving accounts (yes, more than one) from my auto billing I created years back. And not only that, every penny I made from my freelancing and consultancy works were transferred into these accounts.

At that point of time, the transfer of money was still in place and I knew that from that on, that I can consider myself ‘wealthy’ real soon.

Sure, my definition of rich is not being a millionaire or billionaire. The meaning of “wealthy” for me is simply being able to provide support (monetary form) whenever my family needs it.

What you need to know about wealth?

Wealth comes in many forms — it can be monetary or emotionally. But for this context, I would opt to share my thoughts on monetary form. Maybe the emotional part the next time!

—

I certainly hope you found this helpful and I hope I can make a change in your life! If so, check me out on the twitters: @Reginald_Chan or follow me on the Quora.
A$A$A
I’ll take a whack at this, even though I realize my answer is not in the spirit of the question as I’m not wealthy by any subjective measure within the US. I know it’s all relative but that’s just how I feel.

This was back when I was 22 or so and had just gotten my first “real” job making a modest engineering salary of $60k. Hardly rich, right? For someone who, for the first time, has the freedom to buy things they want it’s pretty exciting though. So anyway, like anyone else I like food. I’m not a “foodie” or anything but I like getting good quality meat/produce/etc… and I don’t think I could manage living on ramen even if I absolutely had to. Poor discipline in that sense.

I was alone, standing in the checkout line at Publix, with a full cart (my GF at the time and I ate together every day so shopping for two). The clerk rings it up: fancy cheese, salmon, steak, some crab bits, fresh-baked bread, fresh vegetables, etc…

When she was finished the total came to about $250-$300 if I remember correctly, and she asked if I wanted to add a donation to help provide food to families in need. The amount I was spending meant nothing to me really, it didn’t negatively impact my finances enough for me to care about. I looked at my cart and immediately I had this vision of a caricature of myself saying “NO, I get ALL THE FOOD! The poor people get nothing! Hahahaha!” Me, a healthy 22 year old guy with a good job, a full cart, and a bill that could feed a family for a month.

I felt extremely privileged in that moment and maybe even a little ashamed. I knew I couldn’t dare say no and still live with myself that day so I donated $15. Not a crazy sum but I remember that moment often and it has made me much more open minded and willing to support causes I care about.
A$A$A
There are lots of answers, so I will summarise, and then add something new.

Two kinds of answers: (a) assuming the question meant “financial wealth”, and answering in those terms, or (b) looking at others less fortunate and thus considering yourself ‘wealthy’ relative to them.

I’d like to add a piece of wisdom from the Torah - Ethics of the Fathers - a compilation of ethical teachings - where Ben Zoma (4:1) explains how someone can be considered wise, mighty, wealthy, and honoured: “Ben Zoma says: Who is wise? … Who is mighty? … Who is wealthy? The one who is happy with his portion, as it is said: "When you eat the toil of your hands you are fortunate and it is good for you" (Psalms 128:2). Who is honoured? …”

What is fantastic about his definition of wealth is that is not relative to others. The person who “is happy with what they have” doesn’t need others (including benchmarks set by the marketing industry) as a reference point to tell them whether they should be happy, or whether they are better off than someone who has less. They need only look inward at their own needs and whether they are satisfied.

The verse from Psalms also speaks to self-sufficiency - “eat the toil of your hands”, which means doing something productive which also provides you with your material needs.

In response to the actual question: I was fortunate to have been born into a wealthy family, and first “realised” it when I was teased at school for it. Looking back, that’s not a very good way to learn of your wealth! I hope I can do better conveying our wealth to my children.
A$A$A
Different people perceive wealth differently. Some people have under a million dollars and think they're wealthy while others with ten millions and don't.

I realized I was wealthy when I paid off my mortgage. Suddenly I get to keep all the money I make. From this point on, the real estate market could go up, could go down, could crash, and I wouldn't care. If I lose my job tomorrow, I wouldn't care that much either. I now have a place to live permanently. I only need enough money to pay property taxes, food, utility, and insurance. It feels like I belong to a special society, like having a privilege, an honor, and the truth is, I do belong to a special group.

There are 45 million people in the US living below the poverty line (that's 15%), and millions more struggle to pay their rent. That's in the US. If you gaze your eyes out to the world, 12.7 percent of the world’s population (896 million people) lived at or below $1.90 a day in 2012,  2.1 billion people living on less than $3.10 a day.

Think about that. The world's population is 7 billions. 2.1 billion people are almost 1/3 of the population. So on that perspective, I am more wealthy than over 3.5 billion people on this planet. I'm truly blessed.

Reference: Poverty Overview
A$A$A
I dont earn in lakhs or crores. Just an average Indian ID guy. But, I would like to be healthy for one reason which I will talk about.

We all go for team outings, Spend on lunch and dinner in thosands. We go for bowling, we spend money watching movies in theaters.

I had heavy lunch at an restaurant. I was driving to collect a courier of my colleague. Awaiting the signal to turn green, I turned to my left saw 2 kids playing.

They were happy and smiling. I felt happy looking at them. The kids mom were selling pens for food. She had lost her husband for an accident. She wasnt begging, she was selling something for food. I don't usually give money to anybody or buy anything.

One kid to other: (Translated) Brother, I am hungry should we ask mumma for food.

Brother: No my dear, I don't think so mumma sold enough pens to get food for us. We wait till evening. We will get food. Meanwhile, drink this water.

Kid: with a smile. Sure Anna (brother)

What are we doing in our life. Why have humans become so selfish to see people like this. Why aren't we being helpful. Even those who are well studied. People in cars, behave so rude to such people.

I couldn't resist myself. I got food for both the kids & mom. She didn't want to eat. Handed over the food to the kids and told them, we will keep this for dinner.

She said this to me: Let me get back to selling, the signal turned red. Thank you for your kind gesture sir, my kids are having food because of you. I don't mind eating, but I wish they get food on time. I am waiting for that day for someone to ask me that they have a job for me. I will be the happiest. Thank you so much. She ran to sell the pens.

I am wealthy because I solved hunger of a family for a day or two. Later I started to contribute in an app and where ever I meet people with food and contacts for job.

I also have someone who thinks like me and we both will work to contribute to this world.

We waste food, because we have. We spend money because we have but it doesn't change what humans are. Being helpful should be taught from the very beginning of life.

I am wealthy! In a good way!
A$A$A
A lot of good answers to this question so I’ll add a personal response.

I don’t have any 1 time, per-se, because I’m always considering that I could go broke; it’s happened before (as recently as 4 years ago) and it may happen again. So here are some things that currently make me feel pretty good about my financial standing.

I was able to quit my full-time job and work on my passion(s) on my own time. And although they don’t bring in anywhere near what my FT job did, our quality of living has not changed.

I was able to pay cash for a house; no mortgage. Ditto for a few cars (a mix of nice and average).

The only debt I carry is zero-rate credit card balance transfers (fee only). I use the borrowed money to invest in things I believe can grow faster than the cost of those transfer fees.

I have trouble keeping more than 5 figures in a savings account or cash. I keep my money invested in a small range of things (not particularly well diversified). At first I thought this was a bad practice and some may make good arguments against it. However, that money inevitably generates much more than it would in a savings account… as long as I have the means to wait out downturns and make at least a few good choices. I focus on a handful of big investments such that only a few of them have to pay off, even if the others go bust. This is risky, no doubt. But it’s also the best chance to make a LOT of money, as opposed to being fully diversified. It’s a good part of how I “came back” from being broke 4 years ago.

I’ve traveled a fair amount of the world, checked off most everything on my “bucket list” and finally met the love of my life. We live the way we choose to and thus, are as wealthy as anyone could wish for, give or take.

The true challenge is trying to convince myself that it will “stick” and that I can be happy with or without being “wealthy”. Basically, trying to get better every day at being wealthy in life, regardless of what I physically have or own.
A$A$A
Wealth, to me, is very simple: being able to buy what I prioritize without being unreasonably constrained by price. For example, I recently moved into a new apartment a couple of months ago. It really hit me that I was wealthy when I was buying new furniture for the apartment. Sure, I looked at the price before buying; some of the pieces of furniture you can find online cost thousands of dollars, which I wasn't going to spend on one piece. But I did spend multiple thousands on furniture for my new apartment. I wasn't thrilled to spend the money, but I did it to create the feeling of a HOME when I walk into my apartment -- not just a place I live. And I could do it because I prioritized the feeling of home. Yes, I have to cut back in other areas over the next several months, but we're talking about extraneous areas now -- I bought this instead of going on a vacation, and I won't go out to the bars so much over the next few weeks.

I don't regret it at all, my home will be something I am proud to show off -- for the first time in my life.
A$A$A
The first time I realized I was wealthy it was something very unexpected. I also realized that the term “wealthy” is extremely relative. I am in my mid-twenties, and I live with my fiance. In the next few years, we will buy a house. Fortunately, both of our careers have gone well thus far. We are planning a wedding, and thankfully we have the luxury of having all friends and family attend the ceremony at a fantastic golf club. I want the world for us and would never have ever thought I would consider myself, a 26 year old, as “wealthy” in any way, no matter how my career was going. After all, there’s a tons more people with tons more than I, so how can I be wealthy?

Recently, we were walking through a Wal-Mart because we didn’t feel like buying paper towels and toilet paper at Stop & Shop, it’s just not worth the mark-ups (part of how we save). We decided to take a walk through the store to stretch our legs after dinner, when I saw something I will never forget. In the middle of the aisle, there was a stack of plastic drawers, in blue and white. I noticed them because I had owned them while I was in college. I bought them before freshman year, hoping they would last for 2 years until I had a student apartment with better furniture. I remembered the countless times they came in handy, makeshift beer pong, putting my feet up, etc. I really beat the crap out of them. The thought of the purpose they were actually intended to serve never really came to mind. College.

Looking at those shelves in the store was a man. He was dressed as someone who is most likely a laborer during the day, and was also likely an immigrant, there with with his family. He was looking at the shelves and opening/closing the drawers while his family waited nearby, watching. Suddenly it hit me, he wasn’t looking at the drawers for any of the reasons that I had ever looked at them in my entire life. He was looking at them for their ACTUAL quality; how well they opened and closed, how roomy they were, the price per drawer. He was looking at them as an investment. He was actually counting on them. I suddenly realized that I have never, in my life, walked through a store with ANY of the thoughts on my mind that he obviously had on his, and I am half his age. Now, I was not spoiled growing up, as in I was never given anything I didn’t “need” or didn’t “earn” in my parents’ eye. They were certainly demanding of grades, and taking honors and A.P. classes was expected. My college record reflects this ethic as well.

I did, however, grow up with a type of wealth that I could not believe this man may never know. Though my parents had some tougher times than others along the way, I still grew up with the wealth of never having to consider not getting something I honestly “needed.” I may not have gotten the nicest or the most expensive, but I would always get something if I “needed” it, “needed” in the sense that I didn’t currently have a working version of something that was deemed a necessity. This event was recent, so I still turn it over in my mind a lot. I go to work and it is very often that 12 hour days turn into 14, and I do put in time on weekends for my firm as well. I am lucky to have the opportunity to work so hard for even such potential upside. While I do hope my future continues on the current trajectory and perhaps even better, and while I do make every effort for myself and my fiance (who also works very hard) to make that future happen for us, I will never, ever again discount the differences in concern and mindset, that I was exposed to that evening. Somehow, even at 26, I already have freedoms that some may never attain. I’ll be sure to pay this forward whenever and wherever I can throughout my life.
A$A$A
When I lost my job during the dot com bubble.

The company I worked for went bankrupt and laid everyone off, much like many other companies at the time. We found out on a Tuesday night. I was aware of the company finances and it was pretty much expecting it. I had a few things going on that evening and somehow it didn’t really hit me then as I just went on with my errands. I got home late and crashed. The next morning I woke up to my alarm, rolled over, remembered I was out of a job and just went back to sleep. Later that morning it struck me: I didn’t really care.

Unlike many people in tech I had diversified my assets early on and didn’t hold all my money in tech stocks. I had a pretty decent pile of cash in the bank, zero loans, nobody to feed aside from myself. I didn’t really have to worry about anything.

That day I went down to my favorite restaurant. The server knew me and we chatted a bit. He told me that business was down significantly. Around me there were a few gloomy faces. I just felt really relaxed. I kind of just went about my day and then my week as normal, filling in the free time with a bit of reading and tennis. Life was good.

I didn’t get back to working for another four months. When I did I took a 30% pay cut from my previous job. Again, it didn’t matter.
A$A$A
Although I’d realized it before, it never really hit me until a few years ago. It was my freshman year of high school, and I was on a mission trip to Mississippi over spring break. The whole week, except for a few distinct memories, is a blur of laughing and crying and meeting new friends and growing in my faith. One of those distinct memories is the moment that I’m talking about now. A bunch of us climbed out of our van, wearing our work jeans and cut-off t-shirts, and arrived at our work site for the day — a woman’s trailer with multiple holes in the floor from water damage. We fixed her floor and spent time with the woman, who was very kind. It didn’t even really hit me in that moment, but later that night, I truly realized that she had been living with next to no protection from the elements because the money that she made had to be used for things that were even more necessary than that — such as food and water. Even more so, she was one of the kindest people that I have ever dealt with in my life even though her struggles were bigger and much more worrisome than mine.

I’ve never had to worry about that. I’ve always had a house that’s warm when it’s cold out, cool when it’s hot, dry when it rains, and safe during storms. I’ve never had to worry about where my next meal will be. I’ve always had more than enough clothes for both summer and winter, and I’ve never gone without anything that I needed or most things that I’ve wanted. I am wealthy. I may not have a huge house, but I have more than a couple rooms in it. I have a comfortable bed in a safe house in a safe area. I may not have the best of everything, but pretty much everything I have is more than what is necessary. I am well educated, and I have opportunities to continue my education after high school ends this year; not only that, but I have enough money in loans and savings to continue my education without worrying that I will not finish it. I have enough food — food that I like and that is healthy for me. I am loved by my family and my friends. I have so much more than I could ever need; I am wealthy. Being wealthy is a state of mind; it is deciding that you have more than enough and being happy with that. I have more than enough, and I am happy with that.
A$A$A
A seed when planted and given proper care turns into a huge tree. A person should first be wealthy from his mind and then on his balance sheet. It was a slow transition for me.

There was a time when I used to have a lifestyle which seemed too exciting for a 20 year old guy from a middle class background who had just stepped into the job market. a Lifestyle which was exciting from outside but from inside but I was financially insecure and broke.

I used to party almost everyday with friends at places such as Hard Rock Cafe, ABC Farms, Taj vivanta etc. Used to hangout at high end coffee shops and clubs. I used to buy the latest smartphones of that time using my HDFC credit card.

I stayed at the most upmarket neighborhood in a modern 2 BHK rented flat in Pune. I used to travel in AC Cabs, always ate from branded restaurants and QSRs. I used to be a brand freak and bought expensive branded clothes on credit card and personal loans.

Still I never felt wealthy instead of having this flamboyant lifestyle. It used to take hours for me to fall asleep at night. Because the loans were mounting and my income felt too small to handle such a loan burden.

Soon the whole bubble collapsed. I was short on my rent, couldn’t pay the credit card bills and the loan EMIs. I had to leave the flat and shift to a paying guest accommodation, sell all my gadgets to pay the recovery agents who were at my door. Still I was heavily in loans. I had to change city from Pune to Bangalore and find a higher paying job to clear my dues.

Well, that was 5 years back. I somehow cleared all my loans and learned the most important lesson of my life the hard way. Do not buy depreciating goods on loan AND Do not buy luxuries from your primary income (Salary).

The seed for becoming wealthy was sown in my brain after 3 years of heavy struggle with my loans. Now I will tell you about the occasions when I felt wealthy.

Declined a credit card offer from a bank. (Couldn’t repeat the same mistake again.)

Instead of buying high end branded clothes, I bought Mutual fund units. (I had understood the difference between an asset and a liability.)

Instead of buying an I phone, I bought shares of fundamentally good businesses.

Instead of partying and clubbing, I preferred reading books on value investing.

Instead of getting a regular job, I invested time in learning to create cash flow through investments.

Instead of owning depreciating luxuries, I own a few lakhs rupees in appreciating investments (Stocks and mutual fund units).

Yes all the above occasions made me feel wealthy. It’s not that I do not party or I don’t own any luxury, however I have learnt to manage money properly.

My advice to people who have just started earning : Instead of paying EMIs from your primary income or salary, invest every month to create an asset which can be your secondary income source in future and then use that source to buy luxuries.
A$A$A
My front view was constantly blocked by the external fixator locking my hip bones down. I had a few holes punched on my skin for blood drainage and excretion purposes. My back never saw the light ever since I was assigned this white, screechy bed.

Christmas in 2014 was approaching and I wished so hard to be able to see the fireworks by the windows, wherever I may be. I wished so hard for my external fixators to be removed so I could walk to the window sill, no matter how small of a step I needed to take.

On the 23rd, my surgeons approached me with good news*.

On the dawn of 25th, I came out of the freezing room burrito-ed in a thermal blanket. By the time I regained my consciousness, my front view was completely clear. I could finally extend my arms without any obstacles (so long, ex fixators!). Is this real?

In the afternoon, my close friends from Australia, UK and US surprised me with their very presence. One of them even flew from LA to Malaysia for 3 days just to be there. My young medical friend I met in the hospital showered me with my weaknesses (a handwritten card and a slice of choc cake). I was gifted books to keep me company. My parents made me hot soup noodle and bought me my fav childhood drink. My distant relatives brought reindeer headpiece, different variants of Christmas hats (one even had lighted stars on it) and their warmest greetings. Some friends drove from another state with soft toys in case I needed squishy hugs. A family friend stayed over in the hospital with me for a few days just so my parents could catch a breath.

The love they showered me with were bottomless.

I felt so wealthy.

Good news*: Surgeons told me ex fixators are almost always there for a minimum of 3 months. Mine took approximately 1.

Fast forward 1.5 years later —

I touched down in the land of dreams, unicorns and opportunities. I own a very good pair of shoes* to walk me to wherever I needed to go. I believe good shoes bring you to good places. I've hiked with this pair of shoes to amazing views in the Bay Area, walked in mud and crawled on the edge of Muir Wood trails, walked to a cafe an hour away to meet up with the most amazing people who changed my life, saved me from many last minute train rides, brought me to volunteering events held by Walk For Wish to raise funds for some very thankful children, brought my feet to receiving valuable insights from Sophia Amoruso, Cassey from Blogilates and several other role models themselves, sat with me throughout the sky change overlooking Bay Bridge, tortured (read: pleasure) me during evening kickboxing classes, attracted dogs (huskies are my favs, but all are welcomed!) sniffin’ around my shoes, walked me in to In&Out for my very first animal style fast food and you can imagine the rest.

These experiences didn't necessarily come with price tags.

I feel so wealthy.

Shoes*: The same LA friend gifted them to me, congratulating me for finally checking off my bucket list: to study abroad in the US.

My slightly stinky, hole-y, looks-brand-new-after-every-wash-but-still-smells-the-same-ish, trusty pair of shoes.

I may have squished Cassey a little too hard.

6am shenanigans.

Everyday I leave school with the knowledge that I have a home to go back to. The train brings me back to the city that I love so much. I have my bed, fluffy pillows, Captain America and Olaf waiting to be squished. Sometimes I arrive home feeling hangry but I'm given space to collect myself. When I receive good news I have my parents and sisters to tell and show via Skype. When craving hits I have a foodie buddy who doesn't mind going all out on the calories with me. If I feel sluggish I have the wind to wake me up.

That's not all, but I am feeling pretty wealthy right now. There's a huge scenic lake coming right up and it's my favorite part of my commute. No way I'm gonna miss it.
A$A$A
I was coming home from my commute, which is notoriously unpleasant in the Bay Area.

Generally, it is seen as a time suck and degradation to overall life quality. I think that point is valid and true. But, it’s valid on a spectrum.

On my commutes back, I have taken the opportunity to listen to podcasts to learn more about the world, to listen to new music, to turn my head off after talking to clients all day.

And, on my drive backs, I become more intentionally aware that I was driving a 2,000 lb vehicle.

How many people in the world aren’t allowed to do that because of their financial station, their political geography, access, etc.?

That just domino-ed thereafter.

I still sleep on a rollout mattress because it’s comfortable to me and I don’t feel the need to upgrade. My friends and parents keep pressuring me to upgrade it and I eventually will, but how many people don’t even have a bed?

How many people don’t have a roof?

How many people can’t drink clean water?

Most people are already abundantly wealthy in life.

We can appreciate this and still strive for more.
A$A$A
I was just here on the World Wide Web, the treasure of things. I was just doing a bit of my Google Developer work and then was browsing on the internet. I was browsing through a website which gives the history of every war that took place in this mean planet, Earth.

Here are just a few,

These all pictures made me realize that I am super wealthy. I have my family, that love that will flow through my viens. Their genes will forever be in me.

I love my family. I immediately closed my laptop, slept with my dad, cuddling next to him.

I had all the wealth in this universe

UPVOTE IF YOU AGREE

EDIT: The 3rd picture was a Putlizer prize winning photo, where the Americans had bombed the Vietnamese.
A$A$A
I still don’t consider myself wealthy, as I relate that to absolute opulence, but, I can still tell you the first time I realized I was hitting that upper-class mark.

We were at Costco. We always follow the same pattern: the household area with the candy, office supplies, etc., followed by the middle section with the clothes and seasonal stuff, then dry/canned goods, then finally the cold/frozen stuff.

As we were walking through the household section, we saw a pretty nice little vacuum cleaner and remembered that our vacuum was dying a slow, painful death, so, we agreed we liked it and put it in the cart. It was a $300 vacuum.

In the middle section, they had a shed for sale for $600, and we’d had a dire need for one, so, I ran off and got a flatbed for the big-ass boxes.

We filled the cart with our usual full-load of groceries (damn I love me some Costco) and decided to splurge when we passed by the temporary seafood counter, where we got crab legs the size of my children…I think it was about $70 in crab.

When we got to the register, instead of our usual $400 trip, we had actually surpassed $2000. And you know what? Neither of us even batted an eye at it.

We actually talked about it when we got home because it was such a strange sensation, not even having to ask myself, “Can I afford this?”

So we’re clear, it was only about 5 years ago that I would have to ask my wife, “Can you check our accounts and tell me if I can fill my tank or if I have to wait a bit…or should I put it on Discover?” So, yes, it’s been a rather large change for us, after years of just getting by to, suddenly, just find ourselves viewing two grand as “meh”.

Luckily, we’ve kept ourselves grounded and haven’t gone “extravagant”…hell, I highly doubt any of our friends even realize how much we make. We’re still in the same 2000 Sq ft house we bought in 2005. I still buy all my clothes on clearance. We still do almost all our own house maintenance, cleaning, and yardwork.

But, I know that I never have to call my wife to check the accounts anymore.

*** EDIT 7/18/17 ***

So, I guess I'm not as wealthy as I thought. Our air conditioner went out, peak Arizona summer, and, being 20 years old, it was time to replace. While yes, we had $12k available, the uncomfortable clenching of my nether regions told me I’m still not quite there….
A$A$A
2006

Me *while munching on my Caramel popcorn* : Mumma! You and dad wanted to eat Dosa at your favorite resto right? Let’s GO!

Mom: My tummy is not well today, also there is food at home.

2017 (Yesterday)

After years we visit the same place again.

We shop random stuff and dine at her favorite resto.

While leaving I spot the same Popcorn stall and rush towards it.

Popcorn Guy (P): Yes maam?

Me: Can I have 2 Salted and 1 Caramel Popcorn please?

P: Alright, here! 22 Dirhams.

Me: *Hands over 30 Dirhams* Please keep the change. Thank you.

This time there were three Popcorn and no one mentally calculated what desire they had to forego to cover up that cost.

It was a beautiful nostalgia & a perfect moment to be grateful for everything.

No I don’t wear Burberry or carry a Louis Vuitton, but I wouldn’t ask for anything more than my parents not killing their desires for fulfilling mine. Wealthy? Abundantly!
A$A$A
A little background before my answer -

Oxford dictionary describes wealth as -[1]

An abundance of valuable possessions or money.

Last couple of years have been the most difficult years of my life. I have been in continous losing bouts with depression.I decided to seek help. I decided to start a conversation with my best friends.

That day I won.

They are my pillar of strength, my most valuable possession; more valuable than money.

Just today I was about to lose another fight but One of them reminded me

You have me to hold on to, and I have you to hold on to, we do this together.

So when did I realise I was wealthy?

The day I won against this illness with support of my friends, my real wealth; And everyday since.

Footnotes

[1] wealth - definition of wealth in English | Oxford Dictionaries
A$A$A
I had been sick for almost a year. I had taken a leave of absence from work was losing hope that I would recover and live a “normal” life.

I realized life was pretty damn good.

However, it wasn’t so fun to get to that point. A year earlier, I had just graduated from one of the best grad schools in the world and was loving life. I defined myself by my job at a fancy company, my social life, my success in school and my an impressive early career trajectory.

None of it mattered. As I spent the next year becoming sicker and battling for my health all of that was stripped away. I could tell you I came to the realization that my life was pretty great right away, but I’d be lying. It sucked. I was stripped of my identity and all I cared about was getting it back.

I was telling one of my friends that I had met while sick “wait until I am healthy again, I used to be much more fun.” He told me I was already one of his most fun friends. Rattled with cognitive dissonance I tried to dissuade him of his claims to no avail.

I kept reflecting on that conversation and realized that if one person could like me even without all my impressive grades, schools, jobs or career trajectory, I might be caring about the wrong things.

I challenged myself to think about my “worst case scenario” and kept ending up at my parents house in my hometown where several of my family members live. I’d be sick sure, but I’d also be around some of the people I cared about most.

That was not so bad.

As I regained my health and was able to live that life I longed for, I struggled to really care about those things that had so strongly defined me before I got sick.

Every day now, I have a calendar alert on my phone with my priorities:

Health

Relationships

Fun

Career

This may seem crazy to anyone that is career driven, but to me being wealthy is about taking care of 1 and 2 and then using my energy to focus on the rest.
A$A$A
“Wealth is the ability to fully experience life.” - Henry David Thoreau

About a year ago, I realized I was wealthy.

Wealth is not only money or possessions - it is friends, family, and relationships. It is being able to spend time the way you want to spend it; to do things you want to do. With wealth, you can travel, follow your dreams, and be the best version of yourself.

A little back story and then my realization:

I was very fortunate and lucky to be born into a family with supportive parents and grandparents. We lived frugally, but I never had to worry I might not get to eat a meal or do something I wanted to do. I had the full support of my family in whatever I chose to do.

When I was a child, I was wealthy but didn’t realize it. I had a loving family, a great support system, and time to do what I wanted. I played baseball and basketball, and got to do whatever I wanted with my free time (reading, video games, and hanging with friends). I didn’t fully appreciate my great situation.

I started to become more “awake” to my situation when I went to college and started talking with more people. When I widened my perspective on the world, I started to realize how lucky I had it growing up. Not everyone had support with their college tuition - my parents were able to save about $15k for my education.

As I continued to meet more people, and interact with them, I continued to see how many others needed help with problems I’d never experienced. It’s interesting to see how others grew up and became the person they became.

Life is a learning process. One of my goals for 2017 is to read 75 books. Through reading, I can continue to increase my knowledge and understanding of how the world works. With this increased understanding and perspective, I’ve been able to interact more effectively with others. My goal with my Quora answers is to help others with their problems, to shed light on potential solutions, and to learn more about the world.

Now, onto my realization.

I bought a house in 2015 and had a few roommates living with me. I was dating a great girl and we were doing okay through 2015, but there was something missing. We ended up splitting up in May 2016, so I was single at about this time last year. In June and July, I had some turnover with roommates in my house, and at this point, realized I was wealthy.

You don’t always realize what you have until it’s gone. When some of my friends started to go different directions, I did some soul searching and thought about how lucky I was to be able to afford a house, have roommates paying me rent, and be able to live in a vibrant neighborhood. I’m grateful to have a good paying job, and a supportive family.

Not everyone is as lucky as me - some of my friends had to live at home for a while after college, some of my friends have $50k+ in student debt. It’s crazy! Because of their financial situation, they can’t be the full version of themselves. It’s a little sad.

Wealth is not just financial wealth. Wealth is social, emotional, financial - it is your mindset. Are you a glass half-full or glass half-empty person?

Guess what, I’ll be completely frank with you right now: I have $20k in retirement, $10k in the bank, and a few passive income streams through private ventures. Going by the standard definition of wealth, I’m not that wealthy. I probably have a net worth of roughly $100k (dependent on my house value).

But here’s the kicker: wealth is a mindset and is not just financial. It is also social and emotional. I’m wealthy because I don’t need much. I’m a glass half-full kind of guy. I don’t need a fancy car, or a massive house, or a bunch of stuff. Give me some books to read, a bed to sleep in, and a pot to do my business in and I’ll be content :)

Thanks for asking Liana Reye, this was a fun question to answer!
A$A$A
This is more of an example of when I first realized that my family was more fortunate than some families, that some people had less income compared to my family, and that my family did not have a limited budget for food purchases. This slowly led to a better understanding of why our family had a LOT of things that my friends’ families didn't have, and why we were able to travel to so many places, including other countries.

When I was in the 5th grade, I had stayed the night at my friend Jana's house. The next morning, we had slept in until like noon. When we woke up, her parents weren't home. This was the first time I had stayed at a friend's house where both parents worked outside of the home, so I wasn't used to waking up to an empty house. I was hungry. “What can we have to eat?” I asked. Jana piped up and asked me did I want a peanut butter sandwich, or did I want noodles. I wanted a sandwich, so I prepared one while she cooked noodles for herself.

After we ate our lunches, we were still hungry. Jana went to the pantry and brought down a package of cookies. She looked inside and said that there weren't very many, and if we ate them, there wouldn't be any left … that there was a new package as well (unopened), but that we couldn't open it. I asked Jana why not. She hopped down off the countertop that she had climbed up on in order to reach the cookies, and as she glided across the linoleum kitchen floor in her socks, she answered, “Because my mom doesn't get paid again until …” and when she had glided all the way to the calendar on the wall, she pointed to a date on the calendar that had been circled, and said, “… here. She doesn't get paid until this date. So, if we get into the new package of cookies, there may not be enough for everyone until she gets paid again.” Baffled, I said, “Okay, so we won't do that.”

My father owned a lucrative business, and my mother was not employed. I had no idea what it meant to “get paid,” much less, wait to open a package of food until a date circled on a calendar. Soon after, I remember asking my father when does he get paid. I don't remember exactly what he told me. I just remember coming away with the understanding that there were no decisions made about food lasting until a date circled on the calendar. I grasped it. I didn't feel good about it, I didn't feel bad about it, but it changed something in me. I guess it is an early memory of being “mindful,” in some sense.

From there on out, when I had friends over to my house, and we we stood in front of our “snack pantry” stocked full of a variety of foods, that if there was a box that had not yet been opened, I told them that it was okay to open it. I understood that it wasn't the same at everyone's house. I understood that if we finished off a package of cookies, chips, or whatever, at my house, there would be more within a few days. I also learned that my mom was not employed because my father's business income was such that she had the opportunity to choose whether or not she worked a paying job. I began to learn a lot of things. I learned that money came into our home from my father owning and working a business, and that no one in our home followed a calendar that determined when more food could be purchased. Most of all, I learned to be mindful of the fact that at some of my friends’ houses, that's just how it was. I understood why, and it was okay. It didn't mean anything else … like, no one was better than anyone else.

I remember one time when my friend was over to play, and her mom honked the horn to come out to the car because it was time for her to go home. We were about to have a snack. She was standing at the door, sad that she had to leave before we had our snack. I hollered at her and tossed the snack saying “Here! Take it with you. Take two!” and I threw another one! We were laughing! I stood at the front door and watched my friend run down the steps to the car, where her mother was waiting. I was a bit sad that our play time was over. As she got into the car, I saw her hand one of the two snacks to her little sister, who was sitting in the backseat. For some reason, I was ECSTATIC! My point isn't that my friend's family did or didn't have any snacks at home. For all I knew, they had more than we did. My point is, that the generosity that was already part of my character, had now extended to the concept of being generous with food items.

I'm not wealthy now, as an adult. As a matter of fact, I have dates circled on my household calendar reflecting when bills are due, etc. When my daughter was a child (she is now in her 20′s), I always tried to send her to school with two snacks: One for herself, and one for a child without one. My daughter is now grown, and a teacher at a grade school with a high poverty rate. One particular thing that she enjoys doing every Friday, is handing out large packs of food to the children that the local food bank delivers to the school. The food is sent home with the students so that they are not hungry over the weekend.

Although my daughter was never hungry growing up in our home, she remembers the pantry running low. She remembers when I returned home from a donation center with only a can of refried beans and a can of peaches. When she was 12 -15, we were one of those working class single parent families who was far enough over the poverty line (by $69.00), that we did not quality for food bank donations. She remembers being invited by her (more fortunate) friends to go eat sushi at their favorite spot after school. She remembers saying that she wasn't hungry when it was her turn to order, just sipping on water while her friends ate, too embarrassed to do anything else. My daughter did not share this with me until she was much older, and not until a time when “our pantry was full.” When I asked her why not, she told me it was because she didn't want me to feel sad that she was one of the kids without “a snack.” She has her own childhood stories of awakening to the fact that some families have more food than others, but from an entirely different perspective.

Looking back, I wish I could have opened a pantry for her, telling her to eat whatever she wanted, that if a box were unopened, to open it. Perhaps a pantry with some sushi! If only I could have rearranged time somehow and thrown snacks to her as she went out the door to be with her friends! However, you know, I know, Jana knows, my daughter knows, her students know - that it's not the same at everyone's house. Some families' pantries are full. Some are rationed according to a date circled on the calendar. Some pantries have food from a food donation center. Then there are some pantries unlike any of the others: pantries that are bare. My daughter and I also learned first hand lessons about those pantries, as well as lessons about families with no pantry at all (which at one time included our family). But those lessons are for other stories, as I have already extended way past the Question: When is the first time you realized you were wealthy? What a great Quora question.
A$A$A
I am constantly being reminded by myself that I am wealthy beyond my dreams.

I am wealthier and happier then some of the greatest Kings who have rules on this planet.

Reasons

I am wealthier than Genghis Khan

Because….

I have Toothpaste and Bathing Soaps :)

I am even Wealthier then Akbar

Because… I have AC in my room and I have the World at my Fingertips due to my Smartphone.

I can go on and on…

But that is the idea.

Most of the people in today’s world are feeling unhappy for no reasons at all. Many are suffering from depression and other mental disorders.

They are just forgetting that we are living in such an era where most of the lower middle class families also have way more facilities compared to the Kings of medieval ages.

We have access to clean drinking water, We have access to entertainment at our fingertips. We have access to all the medical wonders where you can just pop a pill and say good bye to the fever.

We also have access to great variety of food that even the Kings would be jealous of.

It is all about how one individual looks at the world.
A$A$A
At an early age of 6.

I realized we were the only family in the entire neighborhood of 30 to own a transistor radio to listen to our favorite afternoon radio dramas.

At 10, I knew we were rich. We had electricity at home to power one incandescent bulb. And we don;’t even have to pay for it. Courtesy.

All other houses use diesel-fueled lamps.

And we also had a backyard faucet.

All 30 neighboring families come to our house to fetch water from OUR faucet. This faucet is a test outlet for checking chlorine content before the entire water supply is sent to the city some 50 miles away. My father works as the mechanic of the water pump station. And we lived in a warehouse of that station. VIP treatment, what can I say?

I went to a private catholic school in high school. Scholarship favor for being top of the class in elementary.

Even if I walked to school and back for four years, 7 miles far, my neighbors walk about the same distance to a public school.

I felt the privilege. No, I am not exaggerating nor saying out of false humility. It was really fun to know that you come from a rich family.

I am proud to come from that family. It built and sustained my self-confidence.

I never thought for one second that we were poor. How could we be poor? After all, haven’t you heard that gratitude is riches and complaint is poverty?

Or, the more sting-filled, “Wealth which enslaves the owner isn’t wealth”?

Growing up, at 16, fresh out of high school, and into college far from home, I was forced to realize that we were not rich after all, as soon as I met students from other places.

But I refused to accept the fantasy that other people showed me. I prefered my own picture of wealth and riches, in a neighborhood of barely anything.

I think it’s what kept me dreaming. The fantasies that others think I have, are my realities.

Yes, I realized I was rich fairly early.

I will just keep my picture of wealthiness to myself. I don’t want to be asked when the second time I realize I am wealthy. Just the first time.
A$A$A
In fact “Wealth” is measured in monetary terms

The total value of his assets in the form of land, buildings, factories; bank balance, investments in shares and debentures etc.,

Of course, the material assets as mentioned above provide us financial security and we are not reluctant to spend a reasonable amount for any purchase because we are backed by money and we have confidence that we can get money from anyone of the sources as mentioned above

Let us think in terms of any casual labourer.

He earns a meagre Rs.400 per day. Spends Rs. 200 for food for him and his family members. Some portion is utilised for the educational expenses of his children and another portion is meant for his shelter and clothes

No job means no wages and the entire family has to starve without food and his children will not go to school on account of non availability of finance for education

However, I found them to be happy at times when they have their food and eat together. They laugh, sing songs and the children play with one another without bothering about their future. They have faith in the future and they have no worries about safekeeping the rich assets for which they have no possession at the moment.

Alternatively, the wealthy man makes calculation minute by minute and he is not allowing mind to be free from such stress and strain and suddenly he starts wondering as to where “happiness lies”. He goes to the pub and searches his happiness; however, he finds difficulty in mingling with others in a happy mood, because his mind is almost full with “wealthy stress”

Now

Wealth is not having material assets alone.

It varies depending upon the situation

For a labourer, he feels wealthy, when he gets a good amount of fund

For a child, he feels wealthy, when he finds his friends and a lot of play things

For a mother, she feels wealthy, when she finds that her children are happy and joygul

For a patient, he feels wealthy, when he feels that he is recovering from illness

And so on

A person is said to be really wealthy, when he has the mental attitude to adjust himself according to all types of situations including difficult situations and keeps himself happy and cheerful and liked by everybody around him
A$A$A
As a simple monetary issue? When I realised I can fill my trolley at the supermarket and not have to look at prices or worry about what the total will be at the till.

When I look at my wages and decide how much goes on the mortgage, how much in my savings account and how much I leave for day-to-day expenses. I don’t have to feel anxious because a bill might not get paid.

Because of my good financial record and credit status, if I do have financial difficulties, the bank is always very nice to me and gives me a loan without any problem - in fact they usually offer far more than I need.

I also live in a country with a nationalised health system, so ill health will not bankrupt me.

I still have a mortgage and my car is second hand and cost 5K. I don’t have expensive holidays - I stay at home. I have two designer items in my wardrobe, one bought in 1997, the other in 2012. I am not wealthy as many define it. But compared to most of the world, I think I am.
A$A$A
I woke up this morning, got dressed, went down to the kitchen and made myself some coffee. All of my kids had their breakfast, packed their school meals and my wife and I took them to school. At the end of the day we all showered, had a hot and tasty meal and went to sleep on our cozy and comfortable beds.

I have a roof above my head, food on my table, my kids go to school. I have health insurance, potable water, two cars, and a job.

I am wealthy.

I always kind of knew this, but fully realized it after spending 1 month in ICU and later 5 months in rehab with my son. Having a “normal” day is now something of extreme value.

(Added last sentence because some comments correctly pointed out that I didn't answer the question)
A$A$A
Even before I realized I was wealthy, I was told I was.

A small apartment in urban India where my sister and I slept in the living room, while my parents shared a small bedroom. They made sure my sister and I had clean clothes to wear, good books to study from and healthy food to eat. They explained how we were lucky to have all of this because so many people around us did not.

As I left my apartment and stepped out on the road, I saw that many, unlike me, slept on the sidewalk or under a tree. Probably, that must have been my first time.

There has not been a single day in my life when I did not feel like I was wealthy. Even when I had very little.

I now live in the U.S. and many people easily mention how they are poor while driving a fully functional car and parking outside their 3-bedroom apartment because they are on a research stipend. I almost don’t understand them and then realize how everything in life is relative. Wealth is no exception.

We focused so much on what we had that we forgot to see what we didn’t.
A$A$A
Here's the thing: Wealth is relative.

The global median salary is estimated at less than about US$10,000/year.

If you make more than that, you’re already in the top financial half of all humans alive today.

To be in the top 1% globally, you need assets worth just US $34,000.

So, odds are, just about everyone reading this is probably doing very well, compared to the global masses — the overwhelming majority — of less fortunate humankind.

Of course, local conditions shape our views. Even a “mere” millionaire living among billionaires might feel poor. But he's not.

Remember: the global reality is probably very very different from your local situation.

Don't let greed barons like Trump skew your perceptions.

Most humans are literally dirt poor, and that's an indictment of the ultra rich who seek only still more wealth for themselves.
A$A$A
I lay on my back on my parent’s cement driveway on a hot summer afternoon under my Austin Healey 3000 sports car. Dirt fell in my eyes, oil dripped down my arms and grease globed in my hair.

I couldn’t hang out with friends because, well, my car was broken and as a struggling college student I didn’t have the money to pay someone to fix it.

As my back cramped and shoulders ached I thought, “Someday I want to be rich enough I can pay someone to work on my car.”

A few years later, involved in a business I was making decent money. I bought back that same Austin Healey from my cousin who I’d sold it to when I left for graduate school several years before.

One Saturday afternoon I was laying on my back on the cement floor of our garage under that same car.

I laughed thinking, “I’ve been here before.”

But this time I enjoyed working on it as my first collector car. My daily driver car I took to a mechanic.

Funny how perspectives change.

It was then I first felt wealthy.
A$A$A
On Sunday I was out to lunch with my cousins. We’re all in our 20s, mostly out of the “help me I’m a poor student” phase of our lives and into the “sexy young professionals” phase. We were talking about our HECs debts[1] and who among us had started earning enough to start paying theirs off. One of my cousins, a nurse, told us that she had started seeing the dreaded box on her payslip — how terribly adult!

I frowned. I’m not as well-versed in this as I should be. “I don’t think I make enough.” My cousin’s boyfriend asked me what my annual income was. I said a number — “But that’s before tax, of course.”

Heads turned.

They had all heard me complaining about my boring government job before. How dull I found it, how unchallenging, how much of my work day was spent on Quora. How I had dropped down to part-time hours to scrape out some time for my PhD thesis. I had never actually considered the possibility that I was still getting paid more than anyone else at the table.

My other cousin, working 40 hour weeks in a stressful management role while doing her Masters degree, raised her eyebrows. “If I’m over the threshold, you’re definitely over the threshold. You make $15,000 more than me.”

When I graduated with my Bachelors, my mother gave me a card containing a few hundred dollars. A gift. I tried to stuff it back into her hands: please, take it back, that’s too much.

I remembered the shame rising in my chest eight years earlier, standing in a shopping centre, realising something for the first time. I had begged her to buy me a book, and she had turned away, said tersely, “We don’t have money.”

My immigrant parents put me and my siblings through private school. Sacrifices had to be made — there were secondhand uniforms and limp, thin sandwiches on white bread, and we didn’t have $20 to spare for YA fiction. I remember feeling so embarrassed and guilty. I’m sorry for making you struggle, mum. I’m sorry I ask for too much. I never asked to be born.

Now my mother and I laugh. We go out to dinner, and she offers to pay, and I don’t cringe in horror at the thought. We’re more than comfortable now. We board planes for holidays and I lean into her shoulder and think, one day I’ll be rich enough to buy her anything she wants, and neither of us will worry about the other any more.

Yesterday was my birthday. I wheedled my partner into letting me take the day off work. “You just had a four day weekend for Easter,” he tried to argue. “Go to work. Even for just half the day. We need the money.”

The thing is, we don’t need the money. We have paid the deposit on a house that we’re building next year. I have a loan for my car, and I barely notice the direct debit coming out of my account every Friday. We took a four week trip around Europe seven months ago. I have money in the bank. My niece just messaged me to tell me my package arrived, some online shopping I did last week. I have a roof over my head, new glasses on my nose. Today I bought a fancy overpriced sandwich for lunch even though we had plenty of food at home.

It’s pure dumb fucking luck I’m at my desk in a government building in Australia and that I wasn’t born in Syria with bombs dropping all around me. I’ve never gone hungry in my life. I’ve never had to choose between medicine or my next meal. I’m so young and stupid and rich I have no idea how rich I am.

When did I first realise I was wealthy? Just now.

[1] General overview: in Australia, tertiary education is paid for by the government and the repayments for this loan are taken as a percentage of your income when you cross a certain earning threshold. The percentage increases as your income increases.
A$A$A
It was kind of a slow, dawning realization rather than a “a-ha” moment, but I think it really struck home for me when I was booking a trip for myself and my fiancé to visit Japan. It hit me that I might actually be “OK” financially, since in booking the trip I experienced zero anxiety or worry about the prices of the hotel, flight, or amenities I was pre-booking.

I think my realization was that I was no longer looking to maximize what I could get for my cash but instead maximize what enjoyment I could infuse into my time was the turning point. I can still think back and remember what it felt like the very first time I broke the five digit mark in my primary checking account. I felt like a lottery winner. Now I look back and i amazed I thought that was “a lot of money”.

I think “realizing” you are wealthy might take different shapes to different people. It's actually kind of a strange feeling looking at my bank account and realizing most people that I work with (most of the people in the same store as me) are not compensated as well as I am, for very similar work, and if they saw my bank account would literally freak out.

I don't make hundreds of thousands of dollars per year, but I love extremely comfortably in a very nice house in a desirable area in my town, enjoy every material luxury I desire, and have an amazing partner in life to enjoy all of these material luxuries with. My definition of “wealth” is having enough cash to be free from anxiety, whether that's $10,000 or $100,000,000, everyone's number is different. I have no financial anxiety. I can't run out and buy a Ferrari, but I don't really want one and much prefer my electric car, and spending my money on trips and souvenirs to make my house a home and a living memento to my fiancé and I’s life together. That is more rewarding to me. The fact that I can do little things like, for example, buy my fiancé little gifts and meaningless collectibles and not feel bad about it.

It's the little things, too. Realizing that I didn't have to feel guilty about spending $30 on a nice sushi lunch for no reason other than I was in the mood for it was another moment where I realized I might be in a privileged position financially.
A$A$A
When I was about 21 or 22, I lived in a PG in Mumbai. The owner of our PG was a woman in her late 30s. She was single and was estranged from her family. Her only income was through this PG that she ran. She would rent out a relatively big house and then sublet it to working girls like myself. She would live with us too and had no other house of her own. She had many issues in life: financial issues, lack of emotional support from family, no stable life partner and so on and so forth. Though we were supportive of her and tried to help her whenever possible, there was not much even we could do as young working girls. One day as I came from office late in the night she opened the door, her eyes all swollen and teary. She was having troubles with her boyfriend and this was a routine thing for us to see her all down and sad. We also had a small grouse that she was inviting troubles for herself and not concentrating on her PG business. For instance, we were all ready to pay her extra for dinner but she would be too laid back to make it and we would end up ordering food. We were not allowed to use the kitchen for cooking by ourselves too.

So days were going on like this, when on that day she opened the door all teary eyed. I was tired with all the office work and was hungry as well. I asked her if anything had been cooked. She said no and that she had informed everyone to eat from outside. I knew she had absolutely no money with her. So I asked her “Would you like to eat something?” She said yes. She must have been too bogged down from life’s worries to cook for herself is what I think now.

So I ordered the best Biriyani and Prawn Curry from a well known restaurant nearby (she was a Goan and loved prawns) and gave it to her. Being able to buy some one an above-average, delicious dinner on my own steam from my hard earned money made me feel incredibly wealthy and seeing her relish the meal forgetting her worldly problems albeit temporarily made me feel humble and happy at the same time.
A$A$A
First, it was when I met Matthew and Christopher.

Matt and Chris were about 4 and 7 years old when I met them at church for the first time when I was 10.

They were such sweet kids, and since everyone in my church knew everyone, my mom got to know their mom. We soon found out that they lived in extreme poverty.

She was a single mom working 3 jobs to support herself and her two boys. They lived in a run down shack behind a McDonalds, and didn't have a car. They walked 30 minutes down the highway every Sunday to get to church.

Naturally, my mom immediately offered to give them a ride to church whenever they needed it, and food when they couldn't afford it.

That was the first time I realized I was financially rich.

-

Second, it was when I met Astrid and Alexandra.

They moved into the house across the street from my family when I was about 11.

They lived with their mom and her boyfriend (who owned the house) most of the time, but also spent time with their father.

Their mom was an absolutely shitty person. She spent most of her time getting wasted and partying at a club, and didn't have a job. She was always either drunk or hungover.

She relied on her boyfriend to do everything- including raising her daughters, who were 9 and 11 at the time.

When their mom got pregnant, she continued to party. She got 2 DUIs, and was even thrown in jail for a couple of days because of it.

The baby, Archer, was born with fetal alcohol syndrome and a hole in his heart. He survived, but will suffer from the consequences of his mother’s actions for his entire life.

Eventually, their mom lost custody of all three of them- Astrid, Alexandra, and Archer.

Astrid and Alexandra went to go live with their father shortly after, and I never heard from them again.

That was the first time I realized I was socially and emotionally rich because of the family I was born into.
A$A$A
I would digress from the question .

I would answer about the time I felt I was wealthy.No one can say what makes one wealthy. It depends on their indvidual needs,lifestyle choices and dreams.

The first time I felt wealthy was Feb 10 2014 when I received a big bounty in my company bank A/C(revenue for the month of Dec/Jan) ,paid three credit card bills,my rent,salaries(6 lakh plus),office expenses,bought myself an iphone,went out and bought champagne for the team,took them for a fancy dinner(mind you all in the same day) and still had 60% still idling in my bank A/C.

It was my first biggest success as an entrepreneur.Never before I had seen so much money together

My bank manager called up the next day to offer me an OD although just a quarter back he had declined to offer us a 5 lakh loan.

On hindsight what I did was kiddish.But I still relish that day with extreme fondness.Thats going to be the story I tell my grandkids.
A$A$A
I think it’s something I’ve always known. As the daughter of American diplomats I lived in the developing world from the time I was born until I was 17 and went off to University. I remember being four and sitting in the back of my parents Land Rover while we drove down the streets of Addis, Ababa (Ethiopia) flooded with beggars who tapped on our windows with cups, gesturing for spare change. “Why can’t we give her money?” I would asked “Because if we gave her money, sweetie, we’d have to stop and give everyone else on this street money too.” one of my parents would reply. A reply I never understood, because we clearly had enough in comparison.

When I was 7 and living in Santo Domingo (the Dominican Republic) my parents were gone for the weekend, so our maid watched over for us. One day my maid, me, and my sister went on an adventure from our 3 story house to her village. Her town was a small barrio of tin shacks filled with smiling faces. I remember getting my hair braided. Two years later when hurricane George hit the country, I sat in a protected room with my maid watching the news, watching villages of tin shacks get washed away by the storm. I wondered if the residents of these shacks had big homes like mine that that they worked in, like my maid did. Big homes like mine that could protect them from the storm.

When I was 14 and living in Cairo (Egypt), me and my friends used to go to a special liquor store who didn’t ID us to buy beer. We frequented it and became friends with the street children who hung out in the area. We’d buy them cigarettes, and give them some spare change as we exchanged jokes. We were the same age, with similar interests. But they were beggars on the street, and I was a freshman at a private high school.

When I moved to America for the first time I discovered a new type of wealth, or a few new types of wealth. I was surprised by my wealth of knowledge, my wealth of experience, my wealth of understanding different cultures, my wealth of empathy. More shockingly I discovered my white privilege. I was so used to being the minority, being the majority was a drastic change. I had been taught U.S. History, and I took social studies classes that made it seem like racism was something the U.S. overcame after the civil rights movement. I was ashamed to learn about this new wealth and privilege I had obtained in “the land of the free”. Wealth means many different things to many different people, but racism means the same thing everywhere.
A$A$A
I first realized I was rich when I had a dream with bread in it…

This is how it all went down:

I was shopping in my favorite grocery store alone and I came across this stand with bread in it. On each of the bread bags there was a sticker that said 1€. I assume this was because I recently took a trip to Europe and buying souvenirs was quite the focus.

However, the size and shape of the bread reminded me of the small (probably 4 inch long) baguette they had served to us on the plane ride to Paris.

So I though, “Hmmm, this was a good enough deal.” So I started piling them in my bag like they were electronics on Black Friday.

And then I came across this large bag of about 20 small baguettes that cost 2€ and I think, “Wow! This day can't get ANY better!!!” And then the dream ended when one of my friend from the other side of the country messaged me about this wonderful idea he had come up with. I was angry at first but then I realized the dream wasn't all that entertaining anyway.

So I get up and start my homework.

About half a year ago I subscribed to the USCCB website and it sends me the daily Liturgy of the Word. I haven't been able to keep up with reading them the last few months and had just been deleting all of them on the rare occasion that I go through my inbox. But this day, I decide to open it and read the Gospel.

It read:

And that's when I realized that God chose me to be His disciple. And I went forth that day with so much faith in His works that I considered myself…

Rich in faith, talent, and love.

Amen! And thank You Lord for the sign! ♥
A$A$A
I am not wealthy by western standards, not by any means. I am well off, insomuch that I don’t have to worry about putting food on the table, but that is because I live within my means, not because I earn megabucks.

I went on a holiday to Romania with my wife as she wanted to visit the painted monasteries. I took the equivalent of £500 in cash in local currency, and was going to put all other purchases on my cards.

We stayed in a 5 star hotel, extremely luxurious, room service and one of the best restaurants in Europe downstairs. We rented a very nice car for the week and had the times of our lives. I wasn’t really paying attention to what we were spending, neither was my wife. I never used my cards and we ended up buying a lot of souvenirs, clothes etc. At the end of the week we still had a large amount of the original currency left. We didnt shop cheap either. I bought my wife jewelry, designer clothes for myself and expensive bottles of wine.

When I got back I exchanged my leftover cash for around £200. I had spent only £300 on a week of high living in a 5 star hotel, ate some of the best food of my life, purchased clothes from designer stores and tipped very well. I also donated well at each monastery we visited. When I realised how much I had left over after we returned it made me think that I was extremely lucky to be able to afford the things I can. I realised that my salary could enable me to live like a king in Romania.

To eastern european standards, I am extremely wealthy. To UK standards, I’m doing OK. To City of London standards however, I am practically poverty stricken.

Wealth is subjective and depends on location and circumstance.
A$A$A
I realized i was rich when a friend sent me this statistics 15 years ago.

This morning, if you woke up healthy, then you are happier than the 1 million people that will not survive next week.

If you never suffered a war, the loneliness of the jail cell, the agony of torture, or hunger, you are happier than 500 million people in the world.

If you can enter into a church (mosque) without fear of jail or death, you are happier than 3 million people in the world.

If there is a food in your fridge, you have shoes and clothes, you have bed and a roof, you are richer then 75% of the people in the world.

If you have a bank account, money in your wallet and some coins in the money-box, you belong to the 8% of the people on the world, who are well-to-do.

If you read this you are three times blessed because:

 1. Somebody just thought of you.

 2. You don't belong to the 200 million people that cannot read.

 3. And... you have a computer!

source: Earth Statistics

Bonus: If You Have $10 And No Debt, You Are Richer Than 15% Of American Households Put Together

source: If You Have $10 And No Debt, You Are Richer Than 15% Of American Households Put Together
A$A$A
Ten years ago when my third child was born, my business was not doing very well yet. I looked at my 7 year old son, my 4 year old daughter, and my newborn daughter and thought, man, I hope we can cope. Then I looked at my beautiful wife and the love in her eyes, looked at my 3 children and took a moment to appreciate that they are all healthy and beautiful. I looked at my own health, my life, my marriage, my friends, and the joy in my heart, and I realized I am wealthy beyond measure.
A$A$A
If you wish to know how ‘wealthy’ you are as a U.S. citizen or resident, check out this calculator: Income Percentile Calculator - What Percent Are You? - DQYDJ and this one too: Net Worth Percentile Calculator for the United States
A$A$A
Wealth is a funny thing. Knowing one is wealthy comes from the spirit and not from the size of a bank account nor the accumulation of possessions.

A Wise Teacher once said, "Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin. And yet I say unto you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.”

The Lies That Kill:

First, I must admit that I began conscious life as a highly analytical, metric driven, merit badge accumulating machine who believed money was the ultimate measure of wealth. Scorekeeping was done with left brain calculations in the realm of concrete, operational logic instead of a “soft” sensory and experiential manner . The concept of wealth being financial, as expressed in ownership, control and power is largely a culturally generated fantasy but does not actually seem to belong our DNA.

The Truth Brings Life:

The bottom line is that “Feeling Wealthy” isn’t financial. It’s spiritual.

Many millionaires and even billionaires don’t feel wealthy, which is why they are compelled to seek more-more-more.

King Solomon, one of the wealthiest men ever, once noticed that rich men become trapped in worry and fear about maintaining what they possess, most of which will end up attracting thieves of malice, resentment, and time. He observed that possessions end in rot and ruin, so such pursuits are all, “vanity”, “meaningless” and a “chasing of the wind.”

Consider: Many aboriginal people who didn’t even have a concept or word to express the idea of land ownership “Felt Wealthy”.

But These Things Must Work Together:

The greatest wealth is formed by a collaboration of metrics and spirit.

Great benefactors of society generally chase the money in early life, and then use that money to fertilize the human experience of safety, art, culture, and other spiritually enhancing matters.

These Things Being Said:

I first realized I was wealthy when walking in the woods on public land as a young man. This mother earth, this amazing tintinabulation of natural wonders - of which I was a part, this glorious demonstration of unstoppable life force, and the abundant, nourishing and refreshing waters it adjoined - all these were “mine” as a gift from the universe.

On the other hand, I next realized I was wealthy as a young adult when I bought my first house. It only cost $18,000 but I was joining the ranks of “landowner” and felt wealthy. It wasn’t really about the money, it was about the sense of personal power to accomplish membership among the ranks of those who can carve out their own personal space and possess a connection to the earth. As a mid career success story, I realized I was unimaginably wealthy when my wife, myself, and five children became the owners of a large country house with a front yard the size of a football field and wooded acreage acreage behind. It took industry, discipline, intelligence, drive, ambition, and perseverance to accumulate the money to do this. But it still wasn’t about the money. It was about creating a refuge for the spirit to detach from the work world and enjoy all aspects of ‘husbandry’ of family and land.

I realized I was wealthy when… I felt the wonder of a love gift from another sentient being choosing to share her soul… I realized I was wealthy when my first baby was born… receiving this unimaginably wonderful and miraculous gift from God. I realized I was wealthy when I suffered a catastrophic business failure and discovered life after money... a painful but valuable lesson. Finally, I realize wealth today in right brain pursuits of creating art through photography - as in the attached illustration.

###

Sign my by my pen name,

Charles Brite
A$A$A
I am by no means rich or wealthy. I save 20% of the small amount I earn, and over the past year and a half I managed to save a decent amount.

A backpacker friend of mine from a rich family, on her travels, got into a fight with her dad who cut her off, and a day later she lost all her bank cards.

She was at her wits end. Her visa was expiring and had to leave the country, didn’t have enough to buy a ticket back home, which included her friends.

I bought her a ticket back home (knowing full well I wouldn’t have to cut back on anything), and she said she would pay me back (this was a week ago, intl’ transfers take time).

She came from a family, which owned horses, and houses across the country. Everything I own can fit into 2 suitcases.

This whole event taught her a great lesson in humility, and it taught me that I have more than enough.

I don’t have much, but I’m most certainly wealthy.
A$A$A
Yesterday, today and tomorrow - indeed EVERYDAY!

I woke up this morning from a good sleep at 6:00 AM. My eyes went on to see the roof. I was happy that I had one.

My brother slept next to me. His arm embraced me. I was happy that he still feels young enough to hug me while sleeping.

I woke up to see my parents sleeping quietly. I was lucky that I have them with me, whenever I need them I can talk to them.

I went for a workout. I felt lucky that I am healthy and diseaseless.

I met some good bunch of friends on the way back home. We had some good laugh. I felt extremely lucky that I have some fantastic unit of friends who can even die for me whenever I want. Who make me laugh when I am depressed. Who have a solution to all my problems.

I set out for a job. I am lucky enough that I have one. It feeds us.

Life is not always about money. Sometimes, we need to look beyond that to make us feel wealthy.

In general, if you have one or few things from the below list, you’re lucky enough to call yourself wealthy:

A roof to cover you.

A family to love you.

Some good bunch of friends.

A job / business.

A good health.

A diseaseless life.

A food two times a day.

A good sleep end of the day.

I am lucky that I have all the above. That in fact makes me wealthier enough each day.

Hope that answers your question.
A$A$A
A friend had started a charity to help AIDS orphans in Swaziland. As a fundraiser, he was organizing a mountain biking expedition across Swaziland. He asked if I wanted to join. It involved trying to raise $10,000, paying your own way to Africa and all your travel expenses, so would amount to about $3500 out of pocket plus the fundraising. With 2 kids in college and retirement not so very far away, I decided I could afford it, at least not that year.

Well the next year rolled around, and I was taking a course about money, and the question arose, if you had all the money you needed, what would you do with your life? That was a very confronting question, as I had spent my life trying to have "enough" money. At one point, I decided I'd have to be comfortable when I had enough savings to live on for a year. But I had long surpassed that and now the goal had moved -- now it was to have enough that I would not have to work again.

the answer I came up with was that if I didn't have to concern myself with money, what I want out of life is ADVENTURE and GENEROSITY. That is, exciting experiences and the ability to give back. So wow, now I saw a mountain biking trip in Africa to raise funds for orphans in a totally new light. If what I want out of life is ADVENTURE and GENEROSITY, then why would I not do this trip if I could afford it? I'm saving my money for what, exactly? So I did it. And brought my son along. Best thing I ever could have done. It changed my life completely but that's another story. Another year I brought my daughter too. Have done it five years now, and next month I'm doing it again.

If you want to appreciate how incredibly wealthy you are, visit rural Africa, visit some homesteads of AIDS orphans, visit some of the many millions of people who live on subsistence farming or on a few dollars a week. I realized my good fortune was an accident of birth, and to these people I am incredibly wealthy. And they're right. So feel free to contribute to this year's drive, and maybe next year you'll join us!http://swazicycle.dojiggy.com/je....
A$A$A
It took me by surprise the day I realised how wealthy I really was because, well, let’s be honest, it takes time to realize things in life that are most obvious.

I know I am wealthy because I’m able to eat breakfast, lunch and dinner everyday, and sometimes if I want to (and I often do) I am able to munch all kinds of snacks in between as well. There are times when I enjoy the luxury of skipping meals because I’m too busy at work trying to meet some work related deadlines. I know there are many people out there who have no choice about these matters.

And this brings me to another point… I am wealthy because I am able to work and receive income for my efforts. I have skills that have made me employable and prompted many of my clients to hire my services for those skills. The ability to do work and to have such skills is like a treasure locked within us and should be considered a blessing.

I know I am wealthy because I have received education and I have done the whole nine yards of it — right from high school, bachelors to a masters degree in English literature. It’s another matter that I hardly use my area of specialization in my line of work but to be honest, if I had not been educated I would have been illiterate, ill informed, not knowledgeable about the world around, and probably would have remained ignorant about so many issues.

My education and the cultural input I have received over the years has given me a wealth of understanding that cannot be measured in currency. I am able to think critically, appreciate sensibly and enjoy art and literature with a more informed mentality. I have read about science and gained some insights into what constitutes this body of knowledge, and thanks to my education I have been able to form an opinion or two about… science.

I am wealthy because I know I am loved and that I matter… not only by the God whom I worship, that is Jesus Christ but also by my family. When I wake up every morning I know my parents, my siblings and their spouses/children love and appreciate the fact that I am around. I know that this is the kind of wealth many people long for and yet it has been with me since I was born.

I am wealthy because I enjoy the love and respect of my wife. She could have easily chosen someone else smarter looking than me but she made that decision and meant it. I know this to be so because I know her love and affection is sincere, and what we share is genuine, and my thankful for that.

I am wealthy because I have friends who enjoy my company, and with whom I am able to spend time talking about what’s wrong (or even right) with the world, laughing at silly jokes or doing nothing at all with them.

I have the added luxury of spending time alone if I want to, and many times, I do.

I look back and am blessed by the wealth of experience I have gained by travelling to different countries, enjoying hobbies and developing them, trying out different kinds of cuisine, and knowing the difference between what is enjoyable and what is boring.

I know the source of my wealth is God’s infinite blessing and his words: I will never fail nor forsake you. This word has helped me through countless stressful experiences and helped me in overcoming them.

I am thankful for the wealth I have, and I hope I never forget or even downplay its importance in adding richness to my life
A$A$A
2012 , I offered half of my salary to a guy in my office because of a blunder our manager created and escaped.

I worked for a company ( educational consultancy ) in Hyderabad as HR Officer. My job was to control costs and I was very keen about it. I hired a tech guy to do some computer maintenance every day for part time for 3000. Things were going well until the manager called me into his cabin and introduced me to an other employee whom he hired to do the same work for 12000 rupees. I argued why should we hire when we have guy working 3 times lesser for the same. He told “ omg David I asked him to resign at his company and come here” the sad thing, the poor boy trusted this manager because they worked earlier at same place . Now came the problem, “ David, do something and get rid of him” . He literally said and left. This poor boy was crying every day , asking for the manager and I come on screen to send him saying he is busy or sometimes the receptionist. I didn't know what to do , so I took him to the room and asked ,what Happened, this fellow told how he got cheated . By the way,the mistake was from this guy too who didn't ask for offer letter when this manager hired him. I was very angry and I told him to leave the office. He was holding my hands , holding my legs crying saying that he got old parents to take care of. He was not asking for money , he just needed the job. I said , let me ask the manager one last time . The next day I asked the manager what shall we do about Bhaskar, he said “ David, such a small petty issues you are coming to me , we should ignore Yaar, chill maro” . How pathetic I felt about his nature. I didn't sleep the whole night and until I finally decided which my friends, well-wishers told me not to do. The guy came next day, I sat with him and told him, Bhaskar I can't help u get a job here , but here is the deal, I shall give you an experience certificate, and 12000 salary and u need to get job within 3 months. I paid 12000 for 3 months and then ,before the third month , he got a job. I never asked him the money, I neither felt I was loosing anything. That day, I felt , I'm rich.

Edit 1: Thank you all for your votes. It gave me more power.
A$A$A
As an entrepreneur I've had a crazy wild ride…

Back in 2008, in the real estate financial meltdown I lost over $1M usd in a real estate development project I was passionately leading…

It was the worst season of my life…

Depression took over me…

I felt defeated and like if my life was over…

Yet, in the middle of the storm I realized that I still have my home. I still have food on the table. I still have my health. I still have my family. I still have faith that I will make a comeback…

I'm still working on making my financial comeback… but in the deepest and darkest moments I realized for the first time how incredibly blessed I am.

It's all in the perspective of how we see things…
A$A$A
In order to answer this question satisfactorily, I’ll have to give you some perspective of my background, for which here’s an excerpt from my first job interview.

Interviewer: So, what are your expectations?

Me: (absolutely clueless what she was talking about) Well, I’m looking for a healthy rapport with colleagues, a challenging and rewarding workplace, blablabla

Interviewer: *cuts me off, slightly exasperated* Yeah, that’s all there. So, shall we start you off on 15000 rupees a month?

Me: *learning at that moment that “expectation” in job interview context meant “expected salary” and not, well, what I thought it meant* Oh, that sounds great!

Now bear in mind, this was more money than I had seen in my account ever. The parents, while not rich, had usually been able to provide for all of my needs (and many of my wants :P ) so I had almost no experience with money. And getting a monthly salary of 15k, when I had no expenses or obligations of my own, was basically a dream come true.

Yet, this was nothing compared to 2016, when I was in my internship. It was one of the lowest stipends being offered in my batch, and yet I was earning over twice what I was getting in my last job. That was the first time I realised just how much brand value IIM Ahmedabad commands.

Owing to some bad decision making in the previous few months, I had managed to dig myself into a hole - I owed my credit card provider around Rs 25000, and this stipend I was getting, even after taxes, was enough for me to comfortably pay off the debt, pay rent, and take a cab to work daily. All of this, in Mumbai. (Of course, I blew up all that money very soon because of an extravagant lifestyle, but I’m now older and wiser.)

Hang in there a bit, I’m nearly done.

Upon graduating, I joined my job with BASE Education on April 20. Ten days later, I received my salary for April. Ten days’ salary was more than what I had earned in a month while at my internship. But the best part was when I received the full month’s salary of May.

For the first time, I was in possession of a bank balance in six digits.

The first thing I did was pay off Rs 70000 towards my education loan (which itself is a much bigger number, sadly)

It took me a few minutes to realise that even after having spent nearly the worth of a 13-inch MacBook Pro, I was left with enough in hand to live like a king.

Younger cousin I like, scored 10 CGPA in his X grade. Wanted a bag costing 2k.

Bought.

Mom needed a new phone.

Bought.

Dad had some debts outstanding.

Cleared.

Saw a pair of shades on Lenskart that I really liked. They had a B1G1F.

Bought two, gave one to another cousin I like.

Subscribed to Netflix, renewed subscriptions to Hotstar and Google Play Music. (Piracy is for poor people, and I don’t mind paying when I can afford to.)

Paid off house bills (landline, water, electricity etc)

Bought some light footwear and three pairs of socks from Decathlon…

…and, that was it.

No, I didn’t stop because I ran out of money. I stopped because I ran out of ways to spend it.

Every damn item on my Amazon wish list that I wanted to buy “with the first salary” suddenly felt unappealing. The template was the same -

Open item.

“Hmm, this is nice, but don’t you already have something like this?” or “Dude, where the hell will you keep that at home?”

“Actually, never mind, you don’t need it.”

Remove from wish list.

To answer the question:

I realised I was wealthy when I bought everything I needed, spent on some gifts to family, and still had enough to live comfortably for the entire month. (My bank balance is, even after all this extravagance, higher than my monthly salary three years ago. That, I think, says enough.)
A$A$A
As the owner of a very busy real estate company located on the SW Coast of Florida, I meet people of all strata of wealth. Several years ago I was having lunch with a client who owned a very expensive Gulf front home on Boca Grande. For those of you who may not be familiar with this island, it is the home of some of this country’s wealthiest people. It’s where the President’s Bush usually visit during the Christmas holidays. Auggie Busch has a home there as does Nick Saban and many other zillionaires.

When my client mentioned that he was thinking seriously about selling I asked “why would you sell your beautiful home?” I’ll never forget his reply: “My wife and I have been very fortunate. We have worked hard all of our lives, have amassed a net worth of about $40 million and are sick and tired of being talked to like white trash by our neighbors on Boca Grande. They aren’t interested in whether or not we own an airplane, they want to know what kind of jet we have!”

What I learned from this is that financial wealth is relative. For most of us, no matter how much we make or how much we accumulate, wealth is in the eyes of the beholder. I suspect that Warren Buffett has an entirely different concept of wealth from that of the Realtor who just sold him a home? Compared to the guy who mows my lawn, I’m wealthy. When I speak with my financial advisor, however, he cautions me to be frugal if I ever plan to retire.
A$A$A
When I started giving instead of begging.

I was from an extremely poor family. We could hardly manage one time of meal and that too after my maa would send us to beg. Father was ill and his movement was restricted. One day while I was out on the street begging with my elder sister, I got hit by a four wheeler. Crowd gathered and some of them attacked the driver. From the backseat the car owner got down. He was well built and had an aura around him. From his appearance it was clear that he was filthy rich. He picked us up and reached a hospital. My family was informed and brought to the hospital. Doctor said fingers in my legs were crushed and cannot be repaired. Listening to this my mom started crying and shouting at that rich man. He apologized to my family and promised that from now onwards he would take care of us.

We were taken to his bungalow and a 2 room was house arranged for us adjacent to his bungalow. Later we came to know that his kids were sent abroad to study and hardly visit. Soon we too were admitted to school and fees was paid by him. That man would personally monitor me and my sister. Both me and my sister passed the school with flying colours. After 21 years of that incident, my sister is a neurosergon and I finished my MBA from IIM.

That great man is no more with us but he is always there in our memory.
A$A$A
While I was in the Navy, we made a port call in Manila.

I was traveling on a dirt road out in the country and saw nothing besides naked children sleeping on filthy flat cardboard, baking in the sun, while others passed their time smashing rocks against other rocks.

One child asked me for water, so I went 10 miles away to get her a bottle of water. Another asked me for food so I went to a food stand and bought their entire supply.

AT THIS VERY MOMENT I'm taking a train to school, with a bottle of water in my backpack and $10 cash in my wallet. I feel like the weathiest person alive.
A$A$A
A little background information on myself; I and my mother were born in Kuwait in 2001 and 1976 respectively while my father was born in Dubai but left shortly after for India. I'm a full fledged Indian in blood but three generations outside my country of origin and private family reasons has taken it’s toll; I don't feel completely Indian in identity. I don't know my mother tongue well.

I always knew that I was wealthier than most people in my friend circles; but this incident shows how wide the wealth gap is.

I go to an Indian school which is almost completely Indian and if not, Bangladeshi, Pakistani and Sri Lankan; there's only one Arab in my school.

One June afternoon last year, when I was in 9th grades, right before my school closed down for the summer, my friends persuaded me to play true or dare since we had a free period which is a rarity.

Friend: Truth or dare?

Me: Truth

Group of friends: Come on! Take dare!

Me: Next time next time…

Friend: Ok ok… I got a good one; it isn't a nasty one either.

Me: Shoot.

Friend: What's your father’s salary? Don't tell me you don't know because you do!

He was correct; We all knew our dad’s salary because we wouldn't be able to submit our 9th/10th registeration forms without them.

Me: 5000 Kuwaiti Dinar….

Friend: Wow!

Me: …..per month

Whole group: *jaws drop*

Note that I go to a Indian school known in the country where “well-off” Indians go to. I don't know what will be the condition if I go to some other Indian school.

I remember reading this question posted on Indians in Kuwait where a man asks if 4500 KD a month is sufficient to live in Kuwait. Many people thought it was a fake question or he was being cheated and just couldn't believe it. Some were aware that such salaries do exist.

A few months ago I made friends and acquaintance. I wanted to know Kuwaitis since I lived here for so long and not knowing one seemed weird and even wrong. I have this one friend who says he doesn't want the ‘lavish’ life. I don't know how I got to the topic of my dad’s salary.

Me: My dad earns a 60000 KD per annum. (I was eager to know his reaction)

Kuwaiti friend: that's not a lot.

Me: Hmm….

This just highlights the economic gap between Kuwaitis/Westerners and Asians. That friend I was talking about—his dad doesn't even allow Indians into his house! Indians in his school are viewed poorly and he even bullies some. Even if your family worked in Kuwait for generations you can't receive citizenship and honestly if you ever do; you won't be fully accepted into Kuwaiti society.

I could have gone to a British (IGCSE) school where people of my economic bracket go to, but then I would have to endure discrimination like what I have mentioned in the above paragraph by many Kuwaitis and some Westerners. I'm happy that my parents choose the school I'm going to; it made me appreciate my parents hard work and tell me how fortunate I am. Moreover, my parents are awesome and that is ‘wealthy’ in itself.

Wealth is relative it can be driven by social, economic and cultural factor. It can be used to discuss “materialistic” wealth and a wealth base on things like “values” in which case I definitely view myself as wealthy when compared to Kuwaitis like the one I mentioned.

So back to your when did I first realise I were wealthy ?

For as long as I can remember.
A$A$A
A couple of decades back I was moaning about my life internally and my taxes externally.  The government distributed an income distribution chart.  I realized we were in the top 2% of earners in the country.  Indeed likely in the top 1%.  (That number is MUCH lower than you think, well under a half million dollars.)

I retired more or less last year.  To my utter amazement, despite withdrawing money from my unsheltered, taxable savings, I find the total amount of savings doesn’t really change.  Indeed it seems to be going up at the moment. (Trump Bump.)

It is a very odd feeling to realize you are living “for free”.

BTW I drive a 17 year old VW Golf, don’t own a house or other physical property.  I rent.  Always have.  Owned one house for 4 years in the 1990s and that was enough for us.  In short I’m not Private Jet wealthy.  I’m just rich enough to suit me.
A$A$A
I realized I was rich when I got my first Salary.

I had enough money to spent 50% of my salary on buying gifts for my Parents. So I bought a Couple watch for my parents and one Sari for my mom (Extra attached to mom).

I saw a poor lady who use to beg near the place where I use to go and get dinner every evening in Ahmadabad (India). I used to eat at same restaurant daily and give her some change daily. One day I saw her holding a huge poly bag with lots of medicines in it and I realized she was ill. So instead of giving money I asked restaurant owner to provide her dinner daily and at the end of every month I use to pay amount to restaurant owner. Because I thought all her money might go in purchasing medicines.

The amount of satisfaction it gave me made me feel rich.

Just a request to everyone who reads this answer if you see poor people begging for money and you think it is just another scam run by someone, please buy some food and give it to them so they do not sleep hungry.

I am sure spending some money won’t make you poor but trust me you will sleep the best that night.

Also there is a saying in India “Gupt Daan, Maha Daan” Charity done in secret is best form of charity.
A$A$A
I am from a middle class family and i was one of those who would always whine about how middle class i was. I almost hated of all the rich lads who didn’t need to do much in life to survive because of the hard work of earlier generations.

But something changed my mind.

When i was in Karnataka talking to one of the village guys(whom i knew) he told me how i was born with a silver spoon in my mouth. How he:

Didn’t have money for the final rituals after the death of his mother.

Had to drop school after 6th because of lack of money



And a hundred of other examples that made me realize i was born in a right family. I always hated the star kids and rich lads for having a successful life without much effort but i never realized billions of people are probably born in families/countries that are much worse.

I was born in a country where i didn’t need to have sleepless nights because of wars. (Feeling sorry for those in syria when i write this)

I was born in a family where my mom dad are wealthy enough to fulfill my basic needs.

I was born without much deformities in my body, Touchood.

Many of us richer than we think. Richer than billions of people in the world.
A$A$A
I graduated college in May with no student loans. Starting college four years earlier without even having to consider taking loans was the first time I realized I was wealthy. My first full time job after college had an annual income of more than $50,000 USD (pre tax). Signing that offer letter was the second time I realized I was wealthy.

Now:

I set up my bills on autopay without worrying whether I’ll overdraft my account, even though my rent, utilities, internet, phone, and insurance bills all hit at the same time of the month.

I don’t buy clothes full price, but I do buy any clothing I think that I need.

I don’t have a fancy car, but I know that I can pay cash for repairs and new tires when I need them.

I don’t eat out unless I’m traveling, but I buy whatever I want to eat at the grocery store each week to make at home.

I don’t buy coffee at a coffee shops, but that’s because I prefer to make my own.

I have quite a few items of clothing that originally cost over $100. I got them all secondhand from thrift stores, but they’re the sort of quality that’ll last me for years.

Each month I have enough money to save several hundred and give several hundred away.

I am wealthy. Not because I have millions and don’t have to work, but because I have a job that supplies me with more than enough to meet my needs and now I have the privilege to strive to use it well.
A$A$A
While I won't claim wealth I will claim comfortable. My ex-wife and I were relocating back to NYS after living in the Harrisburg suburbs. We were staying with my in-laws while house hunting on I considered a decent sized budget. Mind you houses where I am originally from you could live in luxury for about 75k and we were spending considerably more as in several times that. We put in purchase offers including one over asking price and just couldn't get a deal to close. While traveling through a historic town for a doctor's appointment less than 15 miles from 2 lakes and just off the Erie canal I saw a for sale sign and decided to investigate. I immediately fell in love. A quiet neighborhood ,corner lot and in our price range. The deal closes rapidly. Now as I was anxiously waiting to get out of my in-laws I was looking at the houses in the historic district about 2 blocks away… massive beautiful homes. Then the calls started people wanting to buy our new house, rent our new house and just asking about it. Apparently while I was being envious of these much larger historical homes we had had just bought one of the only house's built by a locally well known German wood worker and the previous owner during remodeling managed to preserve all the original wood worker including the shelving/cabinets that ran through the entire living room. It was the last house he had built for himself and was the last with his woodworking skills still on display. Plus is was the biggest yard in town. Now because our bad luck closing the deal on other homes not even blinking at the asking price we were one of several offers he received and he accepted ours because we brought cash to get this house. Apparently it was the only cash offer that size the agency had ever seen, being my first property dealing in cash I just assumed it was protocol… apparently although I only viewed us as maybe upper middle class at the time the locals caught word and thought were were some millionaires moving to town. If they only knew that every penny in my savings was in that bag and in the truck I was driving I am sure they would have changed their minds.
A$A$A
My story goes back to high school. It's a long story so please be patient with me.

TL:DR I could afford going to high school.

I went to one of the best high schools in my town when I was living in Kenya. During my time high school education was not 100% funded by the government. Even now I'm not sure if the government funds 100% of the costs.

So I had this one boy in my class who came from a poor background. Let's call him A. His mother is a potatoes dealer in the local vegetables market. He was a very brilliant person. Very smart and always scored As in his exams. He was very serious about his education. I used to hang around a lot with him in school but I didn't know where he lived. He never used to talk much about his personal life and I never asked him. I learnt a lot from him. We were always the top students in the class. That made our friendship quite exciting coz we had this amazing competition in pursuit of good grades.

One day I didn't see A in school. I thought maybe he's sick or something. Next day, he didn't come to school again. This went on for almost a week. I went to the class teacher to inform about this. Our class teacher got concerned. He asked around in class if anyone knew where he stays. One boy knew where he stays so the class teacher asked me and that boy to see the teacher after class. When we went to see the teacher the other boy informed the class teacher that A doesn't have money to pay the school fees and A knew that during the week he was absent the teachers will be asking students to go home and tell their parents to pay outstanding balances in order to continue studying.

He was so self conscious that he decided to stay home until he could figure out a way to pay his fees. That night I felt really bad. I thought how can someone be denied the chance to change their life just because they couldn't afford it? I went to the teacher next day and asked him how much his balance was. Normally he wouldn't have told me that but I told the teacher I am planning to do a fund raiser because I can't see him out of school. So he told me that A needed to pay around 10,000 Kenyan shillings. In today's exchange rate that amounted to roughly USD 100.

I went home and talked to my father about him. My father immediately said that he will pay the full amount. He gave me the money in cash. That day I felt so happy. Not because my dad gave me the money but because I just removed an obstacle from the someone's path to a brighter future.

I went to school the next day and submitted the money to the cashier's office and got a receipt. I made a photocopy of the receipt and went to the teacher and told him my father has paid A's remaining balance. He immediately called the other boy who knew where A lived and told him to give the photocopy of the receipt to A. The teacher also wrote a letter to A instructing him to return to school immediately.

The next day he came back to school and the first thing he did when he saw me was thank me several times. The expression I saw on his face was priceless.

That day I felt I was truly wealthy.
A$A$A
The first time I went into our local K-Mart and realized that I could afford to buy anything in the store that took my fancy. A startling and wonderful feeling! This came after years of growing up shopping at dime stores (the term gives away my age); redeeming coupons and using a calculator to be sure I had enough cash to pay for the groceries in my cart (yes, before credit cards were common); and purchasing clothing at resale shops and discount store sales for self and family. To this day, the satisfaction of shopping for groceries based on what I want to eat - and not worrying if wilted fruits/veggies or about-to-expire meats on the discount table will make me sick - is a reaffirmation of having come a long way. I’m grateful that the only time I went hungry was as a single adult. I don’t think I could bear seeing my children go hungry.

Support your local food pantries and food banks! Short of finding yourself homeless also, there’s nothing worse than going hungry in a country like the US where bounty surrounds you on all sides.
A$A$A
Aside from all of the metaphorical comparisons of “the blessings of wealth,” (health, family, opportunities) the shift where I concretely realized that I was financially wealthy wasn’t a magical number on a spreadsheet or calendar event.

It was a slow and subtle shift in my internal priorities of what commodity I felt was more valuable to me.

When I was younger, I’d spend my time performing household chores, repairs, etc and worked multiple jobs in order to save money.

These days, I spend my money in order to save time.
A$A$A
I have known I was wealthy since I was cognizant of my circumstances, which would be around age of four years old. Many of these explain how I became more aware of my severe wealth.

Living Quarters & Furniture:

My house is painted in variety of colors.

I have very large bed that I actively despise because I have to use that wastage of money rather than cot or something else that serves to protect me from floor dirt/bugs/whatever without being unnecessarily fluffy.

We have quite expensive furniture (desk + chair + cabinet) set.

Health and Social Resources:

people (my parents and adult at parties — otherwise this would be contradictory) keep on giving me food even when I am not hungry.

We could go to restaurants for birthdays, but we could afford to host yearly birthday parties for all of us (even though none of us wanted to).

We could go to doctor whenever necessary (which was not often, besides regular checkups).

School:

I could take university-credit classes without having to pay simply because I went to public/charter school.

This might not have to do with my wealth, but it does indicate that I had and will have less financial struggles.

I was able to go to university camps with my school which cost hundreds of units (worth about dollars/pounds/euros, not yen or rupees).
A$A$A
Parking lot!!

So this one time I went to a mall to do some serious shopping. The car parks at ground level were full so I had to go to basement.

I found a parking in the basement quite far from the mall entrance. It was a hot summer day and I started profusely sweating when I got out of my car. It was stuffy in there. I felt suffocated and hurried towards the mall entrance.

Just then, a guy walked up to me and said;

“want car wash madam?”

That was the moment!

His face, clothes were wet with sweat! I could clearly see him feel as uncomfortable as I was with the surrounding atmosphere. Yet, he asked again;

“madam want? Only 20 dhs”

A tear drop fell from my eyes.

I handed him what ever I had in my purse that day. I felt I am wealthier than what I thought I was. Wealthiest!
A$A$A
Me and my dad went for small charity purpose in uttar Pradesh we found on small home with no furniture,dirty floors, living on broken home with 6 children i.e 4 girls and 2 boys to help them and fund money for their education

This is the home which looks like

I realized we were wealthy when I visited their families houses and saw they had no furniture in their home,sometime no electricity and someday they have to sleep with only one time bread with no proper education no hygienic and to get water you have to walk a few miles

I realized we were wealthy when I learned that you should respect what you have with you and should not be fortunate that I want this I want that many people dont get choices & options also
A$A$A
I am from a very small city called Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh, India. My father was in UP state govt at a grade C post. He used to earn just enough money to live on and nothing extra. Despite holding a post where he could have earn a lot of money he chose not to do it and lived proudly. Sometimes, he used to get his salary after 5–6 months delay but that time he had friends to help him out and shopkeepers used to lend things such as groceries, milk etc. In short, we were living hand to mouth with no extra financial support.

One day my mom got angry for few reasons and shouted at me that why I am wasting hard earned money if I am not serious. I felt so bad that I decided I will never ask for money. I started giving tution at one house who used to give only 250 rs. for two kids, that too in installments. While going to his home for tution, sometime I used to stop by a roadside eatery shop who used to sell “Bati chokha” as shown below. 2 Rs for each piece. 4 Rs for a plate of two.

I always tried to suppress my desire to eat to save money but when I was too hungry then only I used to stop by and eat just one for 2 Rs. That time shop was quite famous and especially evening time, it used to be full with a lot of crowd. And many a times I escaped without paying his 2 Rs. I am not sure whether that shopkeeper also intentionally ignored me every time. Though I knew what I am doing is wrong and always had a feeling of guilt which I used to ignore after having a free meal.

Fast forward to today. I earn well now and work as scientist in a premier research institute in India. Sole source of income is my salary which is more than enough for my needs.

Sometime back I visited my hometown and had a chance to go his shop again. Now this shop was being run by shopkeeper’s sons. I ordered one plate again. The taste was not the same as it used to be. but I was hit by nostalgia. More than the taste I was thinking about how I used to escape without paying this poor fellow. After finishing I asked ‘how much?’

He said ’10 Rs. babu ji”

I handed over newly launched 2000 Rs. note.

“Kya babu ji! itna chutta kaha se laun?” (Sir how would I get so much of change?)

Koi nahi, Mai ek ghante bad idhar wapas aaunga, tab le lunga change” I said (Never mind, I will come back this side after one hour and will collect the change from you.)

I left the place and did not go back. First time ever, I had a feeling of satiety after having Bati Chokha. And this was first time ever, I felt wealthy.

(Image source Google)

Edit: I never expected such a huge response from dear quorans. Thank you all for the upvotes.

Edit 2: There are many speculations in the comments sections about who I am. Yes, I am from BHU and work in Bhabha Atomic Research Centre not in ISRO.

Thanks Monica Pandey for sharing heart touching story of another scientist at ISRO.
A$A$A
Couple of days back when my colleagues in office are struggling to buy a car, while I gifted my father a car on his marriage anniversary when I was in college(2 years back).
A$A$A
A few months ago, my wife and I decided to replace our bed. We basically walked into a Macy’s, tried a few beds, called the sales guy over and said “we’re buying this bed.”

He seemed super surprised, and at that point, I realized that a typical sale probably required a lot more investment on his behalf. We really didn’t ask questions and he didn’t have to sell us on anything.

Being able to roll into a store and drop a few thousand without breaking a sweat is not something most Americans can do.

We’re in our early 30s, and we don’t go all out really. We have a decent townhouse, drive modest cars, and prefer to cook about 75% of our meals. Both of us still hold student debt which I’m doing IBR on, and she’s burning down hers as fast as possible. We pull in a combined 300k but we live like we make around 150k. Once my wife is done with her loans in a year or two, we’d be in a position where we won’t really know what to do with the surplus cash flow. So she’ll probably cut her working days from 4 to 2 days a week which will be great for us having kids. At that time, we’d probably start looking into investing in small businesses for passive cash flow.

Things turned around really quickly for us after I graduated with my MBA. Having income definitely makes a difference. My wife is dentist, but we lived like students for 6 of the 7 years we have been together. It’s like within the last year, we went from struggling to thriving.
A$A$A
Misery is a dark pit full of mirrors in which you can’t see anything except your own reflection, and you can’t find a way out.

Until five/six weeks ago, I was miserable. Until I looked up, and found that I could begin digging myself out of this pit.

I’m rich as hell.

I have friends who would drop everything they’re doing and come visit me in a time of need (realized this maybe four weeks ago). They forbid me to apologize for my actions.

I have professors that actually care about answering my silly questions in class.

Next semester, I can take six credit hours of neuroscience (completely unnecessary for my major) just because I want to, and I have space in my schedule.

I downloaded an app called Duolingo on my cellphone, and I basically learn ~50 Russian words per week just because I want to. I’ve discovered that I’m quite good at it. Also free.

As a student, I get free access to a gym. I can work on my physical health every day, as long as I want to be in good shape. Asthma has no hold over me. I’m planning to run a half-marathon next May.

My family loves and supports me so much that they are paying for me to spend four years learning whatever my heart desires.

Who says university students are poor?
A$A$A
It was a summer day when I was 13.

My Dad was driving me to an English class when I saw my friend walking along the street. In my country, most people used scooter or bicycle to travel back then, so we clearly saw each other from afar.

I smiled and waved happily at him, but he quickly hid something and his face turned completely red.

I was puzzled, but I did not think much about it.

When I arrived at the teacher house, my other friends were talking about our other classmates. Then his name was mentioned. They said my friend now had a lot of money due to his “part-time job”.

I quickly realised my friend was hiding lottery ticket behind his back. In my country, ranking and social status is a big deal. And people who sells lottery ticket on the street is considered to be at the bottom of the hierarchy.

** A bit of background: Selling lottery ticket means you need to walk around the city, go into all the small restaurants or shops to ask , sometimes even beg people to buy. There would always be mean people/shop owners who would be rude to the seller.**

My parents and brother were really protective of me when I was young. I did not have any concepts about money - I was taught that children should not think of it.

My friend “working” at 13 was a real shock to me. And it was selling lottery ticket. And he had to hide it from me. And I was smiling at him, not knowing that he did not want to be noticed…

I realised that not all children were living a happy life. I realised that I was, indeed, well-off.

P.S: Now when I have grown up and lived abroad, I finally see fully how ridiculous that whole “status” situation is. But that is a different story.
A$A$A
A ₹100 note.

Yes. A ₹100 note made me realise that how rich and privileged I'm.

It was 26th January and Jan 26th is Republic day in India. So at midnight everyone goes on roads and unite to celebrate it here in Indore. So my flat mates took me along with them that night to Regal square in Indore. That's where they had put up a replica of India gate and people lit candles there.

We were there and we also lit some candles. We had a DSLR camera and we were doing usual photography. Then we saw a little boy selling Indian flags. He came near us to sell his flags. We bought some from him. Also he seemed to be interested in our photography so I asked him if he wanted to get clicked. We clicked some of his pictures and he was seemingly happy about it. He saw them and his smile was really warming to see.

Now I love making small talks to such kind of persons. Be it any taxi driver, roadside vendors, or in this case this kid. Because they have a lot to teach you and I get inspired from their stories.

So I had a little chat with him while he was around us. I asked him general questions about his life. One thing that made me happy was to know that he goes to school too. I wasn't expecting that. He also told me that he's selling these flags just to support his family along with his brothers because his father was sick. He also told me that he was around 7 years old. He then left from there doing his sale.

So when we were about to leave, I saw this kid crying loudly on the roadside. I reached to him and asked him politely. And the conversation went something like this.

Me: kya hua beta? Kyu ro rahe ho aise? ( what happened? Why are you crying like this?)

Him ( crying and catching breath and trying to speak at the same time) : bhaiya, kuch log aaye the aur mujhse 2 flags kharidey. Unhone mujhe ₹100 ka note diya toh maine kaha chuttey nahi hai? Toh unhone kaha ki la 90 de pehle. Toh maine 90 diye aur utne mai hi mai dusre logo ko flags dene laga aur vo log gayab ho gaye. (Brother, some people came and bought 2 flags from me. They gave me a ₹100 note then I enquired if they had change? Then they asked me to give them ₹90 first. I gave them ₹90 and in the same time I got busy attending other customers and those people are nowhere now. )

I understood the situation, cursed those fu*king bast*rds then asked the kid to calm down a bit. I didn't have money in my pocket at that time so I took it from my friend and tried to gave him a ₹100 note. To my surprise he first declined my offering and took it only when I insisted. He was so well behaved that he even said thank you bhaiya!

Later his elder brother came and was scolding him for being so careless. I then asked him to be polite with his brother as he was too young to understand such things and I told him that you're not at loss now as I'm never asking you to return this money.

That was the moment which taught me how rich I was. I realises that how much ₹100 mattered to them because they weren't as privileged as me. That was the moment I realised how wealthy I am.

I condemn those guys who took his flags and money and fled. May karma serve them what they deserve.

Also I asked my senior ( who captured his photo ) if he still has his picture. He said he'll check and tell me. If I get that picture I'll surely upload it here. :)
A$A$A
This brings back to the old memories

During my days as an Uber driver, I am a student and doing uber as my part time job for side income because I was always short in cash. The earnings I made by driving around is reasonable as I could work on friday and saturday only, but it was enough as I could afford to pay my bills early every month, fill up my gas tanks, go out for a date and hang out with the friends more without worrying how much money I have left.

As a student, without being worried about money was indeed the most wealthiest feeling in the world.
A$A$A
“Keep your head down and never make eye contact…”

I used to say this to myself every morning on my commute into Manhattan on the L train from Brooklyn.

The year was 2002 and I had just moved out to Williamsburg, Brooklyn that summer with a high school friend of mine.

The year prior I had been living in the heart of Manhattan right smack dab in Midtown which was perfect for my daily happy hours and nights out “living it up” in the city.

I had joined Lehman Brothers as an analyst and my first year was an absolute blur. I was making US$50k a year plus bonus and much to my chagrin I had spent all of it and then some, managing to rack up credit card debt along the way.

Now Williamsburg is currently all the rage as a hipster haven now, and I wish I could say that I was that “progressive” to catch the trend that early on…

The truth was, I couldn’t freaking afford to live in Manhattan anymore.

I was broke and had massive student loans to pay off. So as much as I didn’t want to, I reluctantly moved out to Brooklyn and ended up halving my rent down to US$600/month.

My roommate and I found a 2 bedroom apartment which was the second floor of a walk up, that accommodated us. But we still couldn’t afford the rent so we found a third roommate to sleep in the living room and split the rent three ways.

Each morning, I would put on my suit and walk down to the Graham Street subway stop on the L Train to begin my commute into Manhattan.

For the first few days after moving out there I was mostly concerned with making sure I got off on the right stop (Union Square) to transfer to the NR line up to Time Square where Lehman Brothers had just moved their offices to after the 9/11 attacks. (We used to be down in World Financial Center and I will never forget standing outside the building when the planes hit…but that’s for another story…)

After the first week of getting a hang of the commute I started looking around the train and noticed a pattern.

I was the ONLY person in the entire cabin wearing a suit.

I tested it out and tried different cars but my results were the same. Only suit on the entire train. Which made me nervous.

The L train starts all the way out in Canarsie which I had heard wasn’t a great part of town.

Of course being ignorant, I never actually went out to check it out myself but i just assumed it was dangerous out there.

And from that stop all the way in, the L train would pick up the early morning commuters (mostly laborers) and haul them into the city.

My only saving grace was that Graham Street station was only 2 stops away from Manhattan and a wave of relief would always hit me when I got off at Union Square station and saw other people in suits walking around.

One particular morning I remember coming out of the Subway station and seeing one of the Vice President traders on my floor get out of a cab and rush into our building.

Hmmm. He must have just been late today so he had to take a cab…

And then it happened again.

And again.

And AGAIN.

I soon realized that he took cabs every single day to work…because it was more convenient for him and BECAUSE HE COULD.

From that moment on, I understood the notion of stopping to trade time for money…and made it goal of mine to be earning enough to do the same.

It took years thereafter to be able to get to that point where a 20 or 30 dollar cab ride was merely a “rounding error”…

But in my mind, that was my first pillar of defining “wealth”. It wasn’t a number in the bank or a fancy watch or an expensive suit…

It was convenience.
A$A$A
I wanted to keep scrolling when I saw this question, because I am not comfortable talking about money. It is strange how I felt no embarrassment back when I was broke, but I feel ashamed now that I have money. I don't think that I should feel this way, but I can't help it. We haven't hurt or screwed anyone over as we made our money, and we are able to employ a lot of people in an area where good jobs are hard to find. We provide full benefits and pay generous salaries, and we never flaunt our wealth. I need to get over this sense of shame, so I've chosen to go ahead and write an answer.

I didn't grow up poor, but my parents weren't wealthy either. Thanks to their well paying jobs, smart investments, and a little bit of family money, we were well off. Perhaps it was a result of the financial security that I grew up with, or maybe it was simply that my family always encouraged me to choose an education and career path that I was passionate about, but I never really thought about my earning potential when I made my choice.

I ended up studying History with the goal of becoming a teacher, but I had started university a couple of years early, and I just wasn't ready to be done with school when I got my master’s. That is literally the only reason why I got a PhD; I was afraid to start my career. A degree in history – even an advanced one – isn't going to make you rich. You really won't make a lot of money if you decide to teach at a high school. All I had done was delay the time when I'd start earning money.

I was already married when I finally started teaching, and my husband had only recently finished college himself. He was working for his father’s company, which was going through some hard times. A brand new architect doesn't make a ton of money either, so I suddenly discovered what it was like to struggle financially. We were lucky, though, because my in-laws still had their old house, and they let us live there for free while we saved up to build our first little house.

The realization that we could be considered wealthy didn't suddenly hit me one day. It was more like I gradually became aware that our finances were improving. It started when we finished our house without needing a mortgage. It was an important milestone emotionally, because knowing that we'd always have our home made me feel safe. That was about nine years ago, when I was in my early twenties, and I would spend the next couple of years as an opioid addict who destroyed her own career by nodding off in class. I would have destroyed our finances too if it weren't for my husband. Not only did he help limit the damage that I did and get me into treatment, but he also started a second career as a real estate developer.

While I was busy screwing up my life, my husband grew his own business and took over his father’s company. Once I had gotten sober and gone back to college, my husband showed me a set of plans one night after dinner. I had not been involved in the financial decisions for a while (never trust an addict with money), so I had no real idea of how things stood. The drawings were of my dream house, the insane one that I'd talked about since we met. It had everything I wanted in a house, but it was large and complicated. The materials that he'd picked weren't cheap either, and the land to build it on was sitting at the edge of a lake, in a new subdivision. When my husband told me that we had enough money in the bank to build the house, I understood that his business must have been doing quite well.

When I was well into my recovery, I began to get involved with our financial situation again, but a lot had changed in two years. We now had an accountant, investments and even a lawyer to deal with. You can't sit down to decide where in the world you're going to put your money without realizing that you're no longer poor. When a family member was about to lose her home because of some very poor financial decisions, we bought it and rented it back to her. It gave us the idea to buy some cheap houses, fix them up, and rent them out. Owning more than a dozen homes also makes you feel like you're kind of rich, especially when you just have to sit back and collect the rent.

While my husband made most of our money in a short amount of time, it took me a while to fully process the situation. We didn't take on any loans personally, but his companies did have some debt for a while. It was a lot of debt, actually, and it terrified me. The companies’ accountants assured me that it was a “healthy” ratio of debt, but the sheer size of the numbers was scary, and it kept me from feeling secure. We got really lucky, and my husband must have made some smart decisions, because he was free of debt by the time I started my new career. I still didn't feel wealthy, though, because I knew that there was no guarantee that the businesses would continue to bring in that kind of money. We’ve spent the last two years building up our savings and working towards securing our future. I don’t think that I really felt wealthy until the accountant told me that we could retire tomorrow and still live very comfortably.

It is strange how much space money occupies in your life when you don't have enough, and how little it matters when you do. We drive nice but ordinary cars, we still eat at the same restaurants that we frequented back when we were broke newlyweds, and I rarely go shopping. It is wonderful to know that our future is secure, and that we can give our daughter a good start in life. I really enjoy being able to help out any family member who is in need, and I am happy that I can afford to support the charities that are close to my heart. It does feel good not to have to worry about prices, but I don't think I'll ever stop looking for deals. I’ve accepted that we are, by my own standards, wealthy, but it is much less important to me than I would have thought.
A$A$A
When I plummeted.

Don’t get me wrong, I was never wealthy, but I realised just how good I really had it when it all fell from my grasp. I’d apparently been blowing over £1000 a month on top of my bills, primarily due to working myself until I burnt out, and past that point, and then going utterly wild when I had time off.

I was working two jobs on top of my education. I wasn’t working as much as I was out of greed, or any particular desire for more money.

I was working that much to escape.

I wanted, I needed to escape any time that involved me sitting still, because, whether it was free time or doing college work, sitting still was bad. It let my mind catch up with me. I was dealing with depression, and my coping mechanisms weren’t as healthy back then.

When it all hit tipping point and I could no longer push myself to work, I realised how much I’d been wasting.

I hit the point where I no longer had money to spare, and I then ended up looking at the previous year’s bank statements. I realised just how much I’d been wasting in a constant dance of escapism, as if doing things that involved me throwing money around eased my mental state.

I ended up broke, having to borrow money just to pay for the things I needed.

I missed the amount of money I used to have somewhat, but several of the weeks I spent broke were reasonably good and helpful to my mental state.

Don’t overwork and earn loads of money simply to escape, I don’t recommend it.
A$A$A
When I went to university in UK I had to work to get a social grant. It was a small seaside town and I got a job at Domino’s and worked there for over 2 years. At the time I had an old mobile, and everybody else was getting smart phones - my boss made a point to single me out and said “once you have a better phone you are rich”. Domino’s at UK goes for £10–15 for a pizza - I would never order one from them and I could not believe how people could even think about ordering those.

A few years later in London we moved to a street next to Domino’s. One night I was sitting on my Iphone 5 and decided to order some take away, Domino’s being the closest.

I suddenly rememberd my boss and how I could never understand who ate those overpriced stupid pizzas. And here I am ordering one on a smart phone.

Very wealthy. I laughed at myself for hours :)
A$A$A
I asked Larry Ellison this and he said that when he went into an upscale mem’s clothing store in San Francisco and didn't ask how much things cost.

When my company went public and I became wealthy, I remember taking a bunch of friends into Legal Seafoods, and to paraphrase Denholm Elliot [at the end of Trading Places] when asked,”cracked crab or lobster for lunch?” replies “Both.” I asked for my friends to “savor everything on the menu.”

However, Larry was right. Shortly after, I was in London and my [new] shoes were cutting into my heels, I stopped in the John Lobb store in St. James’ Square and ordered three pairs of custom shoes w/o asking how much they cost. This was when I finally realized that I was wealthy.

BTW: that was 1999 and the cost was well over $10,000 and I still have them (and others) today.
A$A$A
For me it's a process more than a moment. I realize that I'm significantly up compared to where I have been or compared to others.

As my parents became upwardly mobile, we went from renting a dining room with no heat in a house in the bad part of Philadelphia to my brother and I each having our own rooms in a house in a good Washington DC suburb. I had more pocket money than most of my friends and I looked back on the time when all of our silverware was stolen from cafeterias and realized I was wealthy.

Falling out with my parents left me homeless and hungry. I arranged for housing by some of the worst possible means but still wound up eating napkins to stave off hunger on occasion. Finishing school, having a job, and being able to buy Starbucks coffee made me feel wealthy.

Living in my own apartment and learning about people who literally live in trash makes me feel wealthy in comparison. Yet I still live in a wold where paying rent and grocery bills is a careful balance. Technically my net worth is really very negative because of my student loans. I feel very middle class because of the extremes that exist in the world.

Then yesterday I was complaining about the maid service unplugging my laptop and realized I am not only wealthy but also an asshole.
A$A$A
I just switched my company and came back to Noida from Chennai just 3 days ago. Previously I was earning ₹26K per month and now it would be ₹45K per month.

This incident happened in Easy Day at Shopprix Mall,Noida yesterday. I took few items and was waiting at the counter for billing. An old man who had a bag of 5KG flour and some vegetables was in front of me. His bill amount was ₹188/- . He took out a folded note of ₹100/- and started counting ₹10/-.He gave every ₹10 note but ₹8 was still less. Again he got some change from his pocket.

Then I told the man at the counter to return the money to the old man and asked him to add the amount with my bill. That old man was denying for this but I insisted. He was just a washerman.

I felt too good and realized that now I have become rich enough to do small charity.
A$A$A
Define wealthy. If it's defined by the amount of monetary value someone has, which I'm guessing it is - I realized I was wealthy when I experienced poverty for the first time. I grew up in a family that earned upwards of 350k a year and still does, however that family wasn't with my parents, it was with my grandparents. I had a large room in a VERY nice house, a bed, the newest computers etc (something A LOT of kids aren’t privy too). About 5 years ago, when I was 10 I moved in with my mother. Things were comfy and we lived a nice happy life, it was GREAT! But all great things come to an end. I didn't experience poverty until about 2 years ago, my mom moved in with her husband and it was good for a short time. Then August of 2015 came, we had no food in the apartment , literally crumbs in the cabinets. A day or two later we moved out of our apartment, with none of our stuff. We lived in old nasty hotels for the better part of half a month, and then bounced around people's houses for a few weeks until we had nowhere but our car too rest our heads. We slept in our car for the better part of two and a half weeks. It was at that moment I realized (at age 13) that I had it good early on in life, something a lot of people cant say, sadly.
A$A$A
When I got an ice-cream for myself.

So, one weekend I went to my sister’s place. My niece is 9. She was told by her mother that she can go out with me and get an ice-cream after her lunch. Soon after lunch my sister dozed off to sleep. One hour goes by, The Niece irks but hesitates to ask me. Two hours, still nothing. After resisting so long and no sign of her mother waking up, she finally expresses her desire for having an ice-cream. When we went to the shop, I asked her to pick her favorite. After a couple of minutes she chose a small vanilla flavored cup. It costed a mere 15 rupees.

A couple of days later, when I went out with my dad, we both got ice-creams and each one costed 90 rupees. 6 times!!

And I was telling him about how it was worth the 90 rupees.
A$A$A
I first realized I was wealthy five or six years ago when I realized I lived in a nice house in an expensive suburb in Asheville, North Carolina (one of the more expensive places to live in the state), and that I was attending a private school. That my family’s pair of cars were not old and dirty and rusty. That one of my outfits cost between one and three hundred dollars. That family dinner was organic and local and consisted of expensive meat and vegetables. And that I had a gaming PC that cost as much as a used car. While my family is not rich, per se, we are definitely wealthy.
A$A$A
It took me a long time to realize that I was more than “well off.” I have known people who everyone thinks are rich, and then find out the fancy cars, boat, second home, time shares in various paradises, trips to exotic places, were all financed with plastic and/or leased, and the whole thing collapsed. When we use the term “net worth,” it might mean “paper rich.” To me, wealthy means not owing anything, everything is paid for, and you have a large income, and cash reserves for the rest of your life. Big houses, fancy cars, boats, require maintenance, taxes, insurance. I have been introduced as “the millionaire,” the “rich guy,” and people expect me to pay the bill for things. It has an adverse effect on our friendship when that happens. I find I have fewer friends because they don’t have their hand out. I don’t own a lot of expensive things, collections, or toys. We enjoy a full and fulfilling life, support certain causes, but are careful not to be taken advantage of.
A$A$A
Once you “realize” that you are wealthy, then you have come to the end of your journey (in my opinion) because wealth is simply a matter of perspective. If I have $20 and you have zero, then I am wealthy in comparison to you. If I have a million dollars and you have a billion, then I am broke in comparison to you. Those are two extremes, but the moral of the story is the same. To define yourself as wealthy is to give yourself a label, which is exactly what we need less of in this world. You are comparing yourself to others, and so who are these others. You will never be “wealthy,” no matter how much your bank account may tell you otherwise, because it is not quantifiable. There is always more to make. Always. Stay humble and keep yearning, learning, and earning.
A$A$A
It was last month...When I discovered that:

- I am alive

- I am healthy

- I have food on my table everyday without having to sacrifice

- I have an internet connection & a smartphone

- I talk to people who love me daily

- I breathe relatively clean air & have unlimited clean water to drink

- I have roof over my head & sleeps peacefully in AC daily

- I have a used decent car & can travel around a lot

- I can speak English & write on Quora

- I pay my bills on time and don't go broke

- I live in a relatively safe place (no threats to terrorist attacks or major disasters)

- I have free access to libraries and green parks

- I have high quality medical support available when needed for almost FREE...

These things are priceless!
A$A$A
Hahahahahahahahahaha!.. I am yet to realize that. But I measure wealth of a person in two distinctive ways...

1)Cash: The physical cash you have in hand without the need to convert some properties. Your physical cash readily available for spending.

2)Non-cash: Here I sub-divide it into two.....

a) Properties: Exsmple include houses, cars, electronic devices ,etc

b) KSAOs:Your Knowledge, Skills, Abilities and Other Capabilities acquired over the years.
A$A$A
I don’t remember a specific moment, but here’s how I think of it… I knew I was wealthy when I realized that a year or more had gone by where I never once worried about whether the bills would get paid. Insurance payment is due? Pay it. Car registration? Pay it. We owe $10,000 to the IRS? Pay it.

I’m not sure how it works for people who grew up rich, but for me, it was just a gradual process which probably took around ten years of gradually accepting that money has essentially stopped being an obstacle in my life. That’s not to say that money isn’t an issue — there are lots of things I can’t afford. But not having those things, or the ability to buy them, is little more than an intellectual curiosity. I can’t afford to buy an oceanfront estate in La Jolla. But I also can’t build a house on top of Pikes Peak. The reasons for those two are different — one has to do with money and the other doesn’t — but they affect my life the same way, which is to say, not much at all.

To me, being wealthy isn’t about what toys you can afford, or what trips you can take, or what kind of wine you drink. It’s about reaching the point where you can truly say that you live your everyday life without wondering whether you can pay for it.
A$A$A
When I transferred Primary schools.

(I’m from Singapore,so a primary school is our version of an elementary school)

I was raised on a diet of excess.

If I wanted anything,I would get it.

My parents bought me multiple hot-wheels sets worth at least 50 dollars each.

One of the sets I have.I spent hours role playing buying Pizza.

I remember that I had at least 3 of them.

I also remember that I could just pick up a $100 dollar toy and my parents would buy it.

We also had recliners and projector TVs!

An example of a projector TV.This is not mine.

I had my personal computer aged 3!

My PC.

The only reason I truly fail to get anything I want is my parent’s thoughts on that item.

If they think its a bad investment,they will not buy it.

So as you can see,I have a lot of dough.

I attend a primary school where everyone had around the same economic security as me,so I didn’t really interact with anyone outside my social-economic class.

My school.

It was only until I transferred to another primary school,due to me shifting from public housing to a condominium.

I then interacted with those that were poorer,and when I talked about my finical situation,they labelled me the ‘Rich Kid’.

That were to be my nickname till I got another one in mid-2014,when I was called ‘Crazy Lim’,due to my downright eccentric personality.

And then,I went to secondary school,my country’s version of high school.

Then,I meet more people that could not afford to have what I have,and then I realised,

I was wealthy.I was rich.

It took me 13 years to realize that and I’m sure any rich kids here would relate to me.

We just been in this bubble for all our lives,that we just think that we are middle-class.

That’s all folks!
A$A$A
I AM WEALTHY OMG! AM I REALLY WEALTHY?

source:google

Yeah, there are some moment where I felt that I am wealthy, well I am a student of class 10 but then also I feel wealthy below are following reasons:

When I have rs2 and purchased a local chips packet yes I felt wealthy:))

When I purchase some fastfood :)

When I purchase books( nowadays books are very costly :( )
A$A$A
After what looked like a delightful weekend in New Orleans with her parents, memes of young Blue Ivy have been circulating showing her staring down from a balcony at all the people who are not part of the Carter family.

The gist of most of the jokes is Blue Ivy’s fictional contempt for the non-multi-millionaires non-Beyoncé-DNA-sharing muggles. This got me thinking: Does Blue Ivy Carter know she’s rich?

I’m sure she’s aware her family is special—all the cameras, the red carpets—but is she aware they’re worth close to a billion dollars rich? I won’t pretend to know her life, but she and her parents do spend time with a lot of similarly affluent children. When all your friends are balling like it, it’s probably harder to figure how highly unusual this existence is.

On the other hand, the girl is just five years old. This was a thinking-heavy day for me because then I wondered: when do kids realize how much money their families do or do not have?

When I was in the 5th grade I think I thought my family was rich because I liked our house and I had toys and stuff. Then one of my friends told me about the clock tower at her house and I was like, “Oh, we good, but we ain’t that good.”

The Jezebel staff went down a minor memory rabbit hole trying to figure out the ballpark range of when children begin to grasp money and class, and now it’s your turn. When did you first realize how much money your family had? Any child psychologists in the house would be very helpful right about now. Let’s discuss.

If you want to date a millionaire, you can try it: Millionaire Dating APP
A$A$A
I have always known I was lucky and wealthy. But this one video about people eating dirt cookies changed my perspective about being lucky, wealthy.

Do watch it. I am providing different video links for same thing. You can watch anyone.

Link:
A$A$A
3 years ago, I was a successful engineer in a big company. I made more money than I should have, had a beautiful apartment, took several vacations all around the year, dated a beautiful woman & had a lade back fun lifestyle. I felt content but did not feel wealthy.

I always had a dream of starting my own company. I was constantly networking, so I had several of my friends wanting to start a company with me. When it was time for me to move on from my job, I had already started a side project with two reletivaly successful people. One of them already had a relatively successful company - let's call him Kevin. Me and Kevin were friends for a few years. So I trusted him. This was my first time starting something of my own to this scale, I was full of energy & worked day & night, while my partners - specially Kevin - worked part time. After the first year we made a deal that they would pay for my living expenses since I was working way more & they kept their lucrative jobs. Several months passed by, & Kevin always had an excuse; sometimes it was an issue with the bank, sometimes, it was something him being too busy & sometimes something else. Now a big part of this was all my immaturity. We had people working for us, so most of what we made went to their salaries, I didn't make anything. Kevin was a persuasive salesman, he always promised about funding our startup, or convinced me every time I wanted to go back to work to stay a few months longer, telling me how close we are to releasing our product. Even though he missed all of his deadlines constantly. He would meet clients telling us he's working on selling our products while he was selling his own business to them.

About 2 years into our startup, 2 months before their absolute deadline of quiting their jobs, Kevin quit & my requests for having our financials settled was left unanswered by my partners. As you see I still hold some grudge, but I'm slowly resolving it. Back then I couldn't, what chance does a poor young man has infront of a wealthy businessman. But that's not the point of this story…

I didn't realize the damage I had been doing to myself physically (I used to be fit & take good care of myself, but then I stopped because of how much I was working), financially (I was broke, out of savings, and owed credit card debt) & emotionally (I started having anxiety attacks after a while, my gf & many friends abandoned me).

I almost became homeless, i was lucky I had friends and mentors to support me & I stayed with a few of them, otherwise I was sneaking late night into my shared office to sleep in there Or my car. Whatever worked. I started making phone calls, applying for jobs, & finally accepted an offer.

4 months later, I'm driving an old car which may break every minute, I live in a decent apartment. Still every morning when I wake up on my comfortable bed (I didn't sleep on my own bed for 6 months), I feel comfort & happiness. Im able to walk around my empty apartment without worry about rent. When I leave work, I leave my worries behind me there. Even though most of my income now goes to paying back my debt, I can again go out on weekends with my friends, read a book in a coffee shop & relax. Sit behind my laptop & find new adventures & businesses to build.

I have never felt wealthier before.

PS: my dream of starting my own startup hasn't died, I'm still working late at night to learn & build something meaningful, this time the right way.
A$A$A
My husband and I work insane hours and have made a lot of money over the past 3 years. One day we sat down and calculated how much we were able to spend per year if we never worked another day in our lives. Our main house is paid off so we only pay property tax. The rest of our properties are rented out so we don’t pay mortgage on them, just taxes.

After tax, we are able to spend $400,000 CAD per year for the rest of our lives and never work a day again. We are in our early 30s.
A$A$A
Every year we go to Royal Ascot races which is quite an event on the social calendar for a lot of Brits.

We always catch a train there as not only do we drink too much to drive back but its also very convenient considering the amount of traffic that builds up in the area when the days events have unfolded.

The downside is the queues to get back on the train lasts for hours as there is never enough carriages to allow the 1000’s that want to embark the train to get home. If youre lucky or if you decide to leave early you may get on the 2 nd train which would mean only an hour wait but in general if you stay til the end you may have to wait for the 3rd, 4th or even the 5th train. (They run every half an hour) And thats what weve done for years.

When I realised that I had money was when I saw the queue which seemed far too long a queue but in reality it was much shorter than previous years but I thought to myself no way I cant wait that long and us Brits are known for our queuing expertise, we seem almost proud of the fact and look down on others who dont have that set of skills :) ;)

Im rambling now. Anyway I decided the queue was far too long and decided to get a taxi home which was a good hour away and a good £100 away and that was the moment when I realised I was wealthy
A$A$A
I realized when I had 25x the amount of money I need annually (I can live on 4% of my assets). In other words, when I became financially independent. This is a form of wealth that is indeed priceless (not quantifiable), and frees me to do whatever I would like to do with my time, weather that be working or not. I am 19.
A$A$A
My grandmother is from Haiti. When we go to her house, she would feed us (she used to go through the trouble of taking days to prepare a fresh meal for us-if that's not love…). Nowadays, she's getting older and it's too hard for her to go through all that trouble.

While we eat, she tells stories. So many stories!

Some of them, invariably, are about her experiences in Haiti.

I remember on numerous occasions she would recount how she and her siblings would go outside, trying to get food. Not because their mom made someone else's favorite, but because there just wasn't enough.

It doesn't matter, really, if I eat chicken or tofu (even though I don't like chicken). I've been blessed enough to not have to worry about having money for the next meal.

If I go to bed hungry, it is not because I don't have the money. And thank God for that.
A$A$A
I realized I was wealthy when I sat silently very early in the morning, and smiled immensely, and I thought to myself that “LIFE IS WORTH LIVING”.

Brandon
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
With the rise in student loan debt and housing costs, should the definition of "middle class" also take into account debt, or should it be based solely on income?
A$A$A
With the rise in student loan debt and housing costs, should the definition of "middle class" also take into account debt, or should it be based solely on income?

There is no widely accepted definition of either middle income or middle class. I wrote about this at FinAid over a decade ago.

Generally, spending tends to increase with income, so average income should be sufficient for defining financial strength, without regard to debt. Also, the percentage of income devoted to repaying debt tends to be constant, because borrowers choose longer repayment terms to reduce the monthly loan payment.

On the other hand, when measuring wealth, one should focus on net worth, which is assets minus debts.

I have long argued that the financial aid formulas used to determine financial need for college aid should consider debt in some manner. Currently, the formulas ignore debt, except when a debt is secured by an asset. The net worth of a reportable asset is reduced by the amount of debt that is secured by that asset. For example, the net worth of a brokerage account is reduced by any margin loans secured by the brokerage account and the net worth of investment real estate is reduced by any mortgages secured by the real estate. Unsecured debts, such credit card debt, are ignored. (Of course, the federal need analysis methodology ignores the net worth of the family’s principal place of residence. But, the net worth of a second home is reported. If the mortgage used to buy the second home is a home equity loan on the primary residence, it is ignored, as it is secured by the primary home, not the second home.) Debt does not offset income in the financial aid formulas.

I have recommended changing the financial aid formulas as follows:

A student’s ability to pay is reduced by debt, especially student loan debt. Debt should affect the financial aid formulas by reducing both the net worth of assets and the net income.

The net worth of total reportable assets should be reduced by total debt.

Net income should be reduced by monthly loan payments. But, since monthly loan payments may differ based on repayment terms, the monthly loan payments should be based on an index that assumes particular repayment terms. For example, the financial impact of student loan debt on net income should assume a 10-year repayment term.

Note that in addition to the net worth of the family home, federal need analysis formulas ignore qualified retirement plans and the net worth of a small business owned and controlled by the family. I have argued for modifying the formulas to ignore college savings plans as assets, to eliminate any perceived or actual penalty for college savings.
A$A$A
To me the issue with the idea is that most people don’t know their AGI or MAGI or net income or taxable income. Gross salary is a number most people know (a lot lower than you’d think probably, but most.) In a raw marketing sense, putting out news figures based on gross income minus the amount you paid into debt that year, it would be more accurate but no one would quote it because the math to make it apples-to-apples would render the conclusions non-intuitive. It just wouldn’t pick up.

Plus all these words have meanings. Any rich person’s taxable income may be zero, and any lower-middle-class person’s taxable income is zero; so both those numbers would distort the soundbite. I’m not specifically talking about taxable income, it’s that whatever metric we choose to use, it’s subject to more gamesmanship than something as clean as “gross salary.”

And, I hate to say it because it always draws boos in a Quora crowd, but your lifestyle is not my fault. If you make $400K and live in a place where rent is $10K/mo, that’s your choice. The line between salary and housing is not linear—you could easily move to a place where you would make $200K and pay $1K/mo in rent. There are subjectivities here, and the metrics would not be accurate if we gave a free pass to everyone who chose to blow their money on luxuries (yes, living in an expensive place is a luxury—I recently moved away from Marin; I can say that.)

Yes, I expect sociologists and economic forecasters would use something more accurate than gross income in defining middle class; but no, I don’t expect the 99% of uses that consist of graphs in USA Today or the Huffington Post to use a complex metric.

Plus, big one, you’d have to subtract how much you paid for debt this year from your salary—and that varies widely and has little reflection on your financial status. This is because debt is basically an asset class. It does not involve time. You owe $100,000—that does not tell us anything about how much you have to pay to service that debt this year, or how much you pay to pay down that debt this year. Saying debt should factor into salary calculations requires you to say that assets should factor in, that owning a house free and clear should be added to your listed operational income, that not having gone to school should be added into your X-factor. That all makes sense, but only because when you adjust for everything, everyone gets the exact same X-score.
A$A$A
What exactly is the middle class?

Ask one person, you get one answer, ask another and you get a totally different answer. For me the middle class is the group of people that make anywhere from $50,000 per year up to $200,000 per year. You bring up a really good point about debt. Does income really classify it correctly? I do not think so…

I know a doctor that makes $250,000 a year but she also has $210,000 in student loan debts. If you ask her, she will tell you that she is actually below middle class. So the question posed has merit.

A person making $50,000 and is debt free is doing better than many people making $100,000 and have $50,000 in debt. On the surface, it seems these might be a wash but they really are not. The person who makes $50,000 has to live on that amount and can invest the rest. The people that make $100,000 are more likely to live a higher standard of living than the person with the lesser amount. For whatever reason, people who make more simply spend more in proportion to their income. Not sure why, but they do. Hence, it will take them much longer to get out of debt because their standard of living is much higher.

They could choose to live a frugal lifestyle and get out of debt faster. The point here is that we all make choices to go into debt and we also make choices to get out of debt.

It seems to me putting a definition on middle class does not really make sense. I like classifying people as debt free or debt ridden. As another gentleman pointed out, having two debts that are mortgages are very different from credit card debt, personal loans or even student loans.

Not all debt is equal, but all people that file for bankruptcy have debt….we all know this is true.

I am not sure I answered your question because no one really knows what is classified as middle class anyway. I don’t and I do not really care because it does not matter to me. What matters to me is my personal financial situation and the legacy I leave my kids. How much money you make does not really matter if you spend it all. What matters is how much wealth you build and did you teach your children’s the value of building wealth. That seems to matter so much more! At least to me it does!

God Bless you!
A$A$A
The problem with that 400K is people making that money do not have time to think. When you translate that 400K to 8 hr income, it comes to much lower like 250K income with the added tax burden of 400K.

Now the classification of middle class should depend on what a person can afford after all the monthly payments are made. If the income is sufficient to buy or rent just a 1 Bed apartment, even middle class definition will disappear.

A person making 100K in another part of the US may be better off.
A$A$A
I’m answering my own question here.

I think that the definition of “middle class” should account for debt, not just income. If you take out $200k in student loans to get a job that, after several years, gives you a $150k income, you are not upper class. You are not rich. You should be considered middle class until your student loan debt is paid down.

According to the article, in my hometown, Chicago, “middle class” is defined as:

Incomes between $44,013 to $132,040.

If that were realistic, virtually every married couple I know would be considered upper class. But they aren’t. They can’t afford new cars. They can’t afford vacations. I know dozens of couples that make well above $132,040 annually, but are struggling to pay down the debt that they had to take on to get to those higher income levels in the first place.

If you owe $500,000 in student loan debt and a mortgage, which is entirely possible and I know people in that situation, and your income is more than $132,040, you are not rich. Assuming that you need to eat and pay utilities and buy clothes and pay for transportation and of course, pay taxes, your net worth is going to be in the negatives for years. To call you “upper class” in that situation is wrong.
A$A$A
An excellent question and I agree with your assertion.

Debt is considered when assessing net worth and would be appropriate in considering “middle class” in my opinion.

I think it would result in a bit of a shock, especially when compared to the amount of debt the middle class carried back in the fifties and sixties.

Thank you.
A$A$A
It should include not only debt, but net worth.

By income standards I am “poor”.

But I’m not. My money is in stocks, bonds and real estate. When I need some, I take it out.

But I qualify for subsidized prescriptions, and I take that benefit as my way of participating in socialized medicine.

Yes, I know this is a rationalization.
A$A$A
I’ve always thought of middle class as a type of lifestyle and values. Growing up, I knew that middle class folks had jobs with salaries or owned a business and could afford a house, a decent car and a one week vacation each year. We understood it took more than a minimum wage job to achieve this but some families had two incomes and for all I know, gifts from others.

Certainly it is difficult to maintain a middle class lifestyle with a huge debt load, but it is also difficult to maintain it without an education. Does that mean that middle class will come to describe a family in a cramped apartment and no car? That is likely a function of the economy. If the typical wage earner has an education but can no longer afford the house, car and vacation, then middle class probably should mean something else. And citizens should ask some tough questions.
A$A$A
Only the IRS tends to measure middle class by income. They do that because the United States has a progressive income tax system.

Economists and Social Scientists tend to use both income and net worth. A person’s net worth is the value of everything they own minus the value of everything they owe. By this measure, if you sold everything you own and paid all of your debt, you would be considered middle class if you had between about $5K and $590K left over. You would be considered poor (most poor have a negative net worth) if you have less than that and wealthy if you have more. The so-called 1% are those that have about $10 million or more left over. these people are also called decamillionaires.

The way most people judge is by lifestyle. Does a person live in an “average” house or “nice” apartment? Do they own a decent vehicle? Can they take a vacation each year? Then they are considered to be middle class.
A$A$A
I can only imagine there are people far better able to answer this than me but the problem with this proposition is that not all debts are equal. I own two properties. One I live in and one I rent out. I also have a fairly decent amount of money saved up in stocks and retirement accounts. But because both of my properties are in some of the more expensive parts of the country, comparing my debt to my cash reserves would put me in the negative while a 56 year old with 2K in the bank who rents would look like their finances are better than mine.
A$A$A
Any definition of middle class should consider standard of living rather than purely income or income - debt. A family that lives in an area with astronomical housing costs and has hundreds of thousands of dollars in student loan debt could easily earn $300,000 a year and still only be middle class. In Silicon Valley you would struggle to own a townhome on such a household income, especially with large student loan payments.
A$A$A
Why on earth would ANYONE live in Silicon valley? Why would ANYONE buy a Rolex as there are so very many watches that look better and do the job but cost waaaay less? Why would anyone spend millions for a home in silicon valley that they could buy in North Carolina for 500k? Why would someone go to Berkely or USC when they could go to a good community college and get the same paycheck from it for hundreds of thousand less??? Oh, yeah, there’s that indoctrination thing…can't miss out on that. Communism needs the funding. Those are the first questions. To answer the original question, I believe debt MUST come into play when talking middle class or ANY class. After all, debt plus interest deletes net worth.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
Students at IITs/BITS are getting a package of 2 crores. Why do companies like Facebook, Google, etc. offer such a huge package to IITians/BITSians?
A$A$A
Why IITians Crores package is really not worth it?

December 6, 2014

We recently know that Facebook hired three students from IIT Mumbai and two from IIT Kharagapur as a part of their pre-campus placement package. Two of the five hired are women (one each from Mumbai and Kharagpur). The hype over these students getting a plum pay package of Rs 1.42 crore with the networking giant Facebook had barely subsided that we got to hear about four students from another IIT campus turning down offers which would sound like music to most ears.

The girl student and one of the boys declined the offer saying it did not match their temperament and that they wanted professional fulfillment from their jobs.

First of all the salary offered in the recent placement seasons at IITs are not 1cr+ in terms of yearly salaries. They range roughly around 110K-125K dollars including variable components. The rest of the package is in form of Restricted Stock Units (RSU) to be given to the candidates over a period of four years. The current valuation of these RSUs are included while reporting the salary to make it look inflated.

I want to mention that this is fairly a standard package which companies in Bay Area offer to students from Top institutes in USA. Some of those companies also hire students from IITs in India and offer them similar packages. So this may sound huge when converted in Indian rupees but even a software engineer gets around 80K package in USA with a decent company.

Also since Indian students have to acquire H1B visa in order to work in USA and considering the current trend in H1B visa application , it is purely based on luck whether or not a visa would be allotted to these students. Last year the visa process opened and shut before they could get their degrees forcing them to work at Indian offices of these companies at much lower salaries than advertised.

Reasons to Reject These High salaries :

1.Problems of taxation

However you look at it, employees will always have the highest tax burden in any society. The rate of tax is standardized and the people with jobs will invariably have to pay for the people without jobs. The taxes are taken both from your income and the payroll tax for your employer, effectively taxing you twice. If you were to own a business or be a full time investor, the tax rate would be lower and the system will allow you to make deductions and postpone paying tax. Taxcaster online tools are simple and effective in calculating the deductions. The tax system is designed like this to stimulate business and entrepreneurship. By demanding less tax, the government is in a sense rewarding the individual willing to take the risk of running their own business. As the employee takes less risk, they have to pay higher tax. If you are looking to make money from working, being an employee is the worst place you can be from a taxation point of view.

A survey by accountancy firm Price waterhouse Coopers (PWC) has found that the take-home salary (after paying income tax rates and social security contributions) of a high earner in India is less than that of salary earners in the UK, Canada, US, China and Russia.

2.I will never work for money

Instead of working for money, you need to aim to get to a stage where money works for you. Have a look at the well-to-do , they would only take a job to acquire assets of some sort. This could mean acquiring the knowledge of a job/company/industry so they can replicate it. It could mean obtaining the financial intelligence to realize how to beat the system and become the person at the top shaving off profits from the system every day. You should be working to develop assets, be that real estate, stocks and shares or even investing in fine wines. Your aim should be to move up the value chain of life and change from being employed to being a business owner or investor. This way you can earn a passive income without any continuous effort.

3.Will this Job Fit Me?

The good news is you got the job. Which, in this still-reeling economy, is quite an accomplishment. But the bad news is you’re worried you might be settling for a position that isn’t the right fit for you.

4.I will never go against my principles, moral values or lifestyle choices.

Even in tough financial times, it’s not worth selling your soul for a paycheck, says Laurent Duperval, president of Duperval Consulting in Montreal, Canada. Duperval advises job seekers to stay away from positions or employers that conflict with their core values. “If you’re a vegetarian, don’t go work for a meat packer. Period.” 3. When It Costs You Your Family

A great paycheck that takes you out-of-town — or out of family life by nature of the sheer number of hours required — may be a risk to your family connections. Yes, getting behind on your mortgage payment could strain family loyalties as well, but be sure you and your spouse (or significant other) are on the same page regarding expectations.

5.Package includes Stock :

Such a large number of crore-plus offers — including cash and stock — are being offered for the first time. Oracle is leading the charge, offering up to 4,800 stock units worth $200,000 (Rs 1.24 crore), besides a $125,000 (Rs 77.5 lakh) cash component.

Sources from IITBHU (Varanasi) confirmed these figures.

The bandwagon and hype of IIT placements tend to have an adverse impact on placements in local engineering institutes. In our previous article (PART 1) we explored several factors that drive this hype and how they mould public perceptions. But to what extent do these factors manipulate the careers of non-IIT engineering graduates? Are engineering aspirants blind-sighted to an industry created bubble?

The business of hope:

Annual placement reports and tall salary claims have the power to manipulate public opinion. Many small institutes nowadays also use this tactic to attract student admissions. For e.g. coaching institutes in Kota put up huge banners about the number of students admitted into IITs every year. However, they will rarely mention the total strength of their classes or what percentage of students got an IIT seat. Such tactics are used to inculcate hope amongst aspiring engineers and their parents.

In the words of Deepak Agrawal, Associate Director, ISB (Indian School of Business), "It is an economy of hope. We know little about the input or the process but have high hopes about the output."

Similarly, when an IIT student bags a salary package worth 2 crore rupees, it is a one off incident and cannot be generalised as the average salary package of all students. According to some IIT alumni, the average salary package in IITs may hover around 50-60 lakhs and there are usually only 2-3 exceptional students in a batch of 1000 whose package would cross a crore. Yet, such statistics and claims are made periodically to reinforce the brand of a coaching institute or engineering college.

Job varieties in other colleges:

Arpit Jain, a 2012 graduate from Baldevram Mirdha Institute of Technology (BMIT), Jaipur, says, "We had absolutely no campus placements in our college. We had to use job search engines and apply off-campus. Big MNCs like Microsoft, Google, Oracle, etc were a far reach for us." While IITs usually receive a flux of MNCs and start-ups during every placement season, some small college students have to find their own avenues for getting jobs. Hardik Gada, an ex-student of K.J. Somaiya Institute of Technology says, "The higher grade posts are sometimes not even offered to local college students during placements."

Problems of mass hiring and applying off-campus:

Students from local colleges who do not receive a desired job profile or salary package in placements may want to apply for jobs without the institute's assistance. However, do they get a fair salary quotation off-campus?

Recruiters from DirectI say that, "Once the salary bracket for a job profile has been set, it remains constant for all applicants - on-campus and off-campus." This may give some respite to students whose colleges lack the ability to attract campus recruiters. However, while IITians, IIITians or NITians, would consider mass recruitment drives as their last resort, for some local college students, it is the only option for placement.

Student Perceptions:

According to Agrawal, "The IIT mindset is salary driven. 95% of IITians perceive a job in terms of the salary package and benefits. On the other hand, local college students are looking to accept whatever job they get and start their career."

Students usually spend several lakh rupees for coaching classes, JEE registrations and college fees. Hence, their attitude may be driven by the desire to finally convert the past 6-7 years of their educational investment into revenue.

A couple of local college students in Mumbai that PaGaLGuY spoke to were of the opinion that it is important to get a job after graduation. They said that salary hikes and job gradation would happen depending on their performance in the company. Unlike IITians they believed in earning corporate experience before turning entrepreneurs.

Given the present scenario, this placement bubble is unlikely to burst in the near future. The rift in IIT and non-IIT placements will persist and industries will expand banking on blind hopes of engineering aspirants.
A$A$A
We recently know that Facebook hired three students from IIT Mumbai and two from IIT Kharagapur as a part of their pre-campus placement package. Two of the five hired are women (one each from Mumbai and Kharagpur). The hype over these students getting a plum pay package of Rs 1.42 crore with the networking giant Facebook had barely subsided that we got to hear about four students from another IIT campus turning down offers which would sound like music to most ears.

The girl student and one of the boys declined the offer saying it did not match their temperament and that they wanted professional fulfillment from their jobs.

First of all the salary offered in the recent placement seasons at IITs are not 1cr+ in terms of yearly salaries. They range roughly around 110K-125K dollars including variable components. The rest of the package is in form of Restricted Stock Units (RSU) to be given to the candidates over a period of four years. The current valuation of these RSUs are included while reporting the salary to make it look inflated.

I want to mention that this is fairly a standard package which companies in Bay Area offer to students from Top institutes in USA. Some of those companies also hire students from IITs in India and offer them similar packages. So this may sound huge when converted in Indian rupees but even a software engineer gets around 80K package in USA with a decent company.

Also since Indian students have to acquire H1B visa in order to work in USA and considering the current trend in H1B visa application , it is purely based on luck whether or not a visa would be allotted to these students. Last year the visa process opened and shut before they could get their degrees forcing them to work at Indian offices of these companies at much lower salaries than advertised.
A$A$A
Apart from the fact that the dollar to rupee conversion makes it seem insane. Being an Non-IIT student I can understand the feeling from my fellow Non-IIT student. If I were to interpret the question in more generic sense, the question actually means “What makes IIT Student so Special”. I can give an exact answer to this, because I have attended two Courses (Architecture of High Performance Computer and Advanced Algorithm) from IIT Delhi (for my Pre-PhD preparations).

There is sheer amount of difference between the height, the Professors of IIT takes a Student’s intellect to. Though, we are taught from similar books but the type of Examination/Assignment delivery and evaluation makes the whole difference.

Example, In my College I had studied similar courses but our assignments were limited to the theoretical aspect of the course, we had just one Programming Assignment and its a shame it was too easy to attempt (They just asked us to simulate some gates and Pipeline of Processor in C).

While the first Assignment I got in that course in IIT was to program a logic for Branch Prediction. Code it in java and the test it on SPEC2000 benchmark’s Trace. For second Assignment we were asked to carry out implementation of Load-Store Dependency Speculator and the replay mechanism in case it fails. Again the evaluations were to run on SPEC2000 benchmarks. In our Mid-Semester Examination, we just had one Subjective theoretical Question, rest were all analytical.

Now comes the actual edge, the Exam had a question about how the Intel engineers/scientist handled the delay caused due to decoding. It took Intel about year and half to research and come up with an solution for same (i.e. pre-decoding/trace-cache) and they expected us to come up with an answer in just 2 hours.

The point is not everyone got exact answer, but it made us think out of the box. We were given a bunch of Research Papers and books at the beginning of our course. None of which had the exact answer of that question, but it made the mind mature enough to guess. The Mid-Semester Exam was of 50 marks, very few scored above 40 marks the average was 30. But the guys who got above 45 marks, they attempted that question and got it right.

So, now if we were to compare. I Graduated from some *** University having above 8 CGPA. I had no clue about this question or any of the stuff I discussed above. And a guy graduating from IIT having above 8 CGPA who figured out how Intel did what it did in 2 hours. Plus, not to mention such rigorous assignments.

Who do you think facebook will prefer me to whom facebook will have to “Train”, who have never thought of scenarios out of my books or the IIT guy who have already faced industry level scenarios in exams and read the latest Research Papers as part of his regular curriculum?

Link : Architecture of High Performance Computers (Check out the course link)
A$A$A
DTU boy bags a package of 1.24 Cr from Uber. Adobe hires NIT Patna girl for 39.4 LPA.

It is true that students from IITs and BITS get handsome packages but its only the exceptional candidates who manage to secure such packages. What you must take away from this is the skills these candidates held. That is the reason why they were able to secure such packages.

In the present date, College name is just a trademark, companies are filtering candidates based on their skill-sets. This is due to rise of product based companies and start ups and their need for good developers. Most of the product based companies offer lucrative packages to good developers who have the right skill set and same is with the start ups, they are very keen on hiring good programmers that can help them scale up their businesses.

Salaries offered by product based companies are very lucrative.

What are the skill sets that product based companies are looking at?

Product based companies have a very stringent process when it comes to hiring. They consider candidates that are continuously updating themselves with the technological trends and are willing acquire more knowledge with their progression. They are also taking into account the personality of the candidate, interpersonal skill, analytical skills and more importantly creativity towards solving problems and developing of course.

Advantages of working in product based companies:

The growth rate is higher as compared to service based companies.

The salaries offered are more lucrative.

Allows you to be creative and experiment based on the new market trends

Career Paths are trending presently in the Software Industry.

In the present date, companies are looking to hire web developers in a rampant rate. As a study suggested, the demand for web developers is going to increase by 22% by 2021, faster compared to the rest of the professions in the software industry.

In the product based industry, web development is one of most sought after career paths. With the advent of internet, most of the companies function on the virtual medium. This has also helped them acquire a large consumer base which in turn is slowly becoming a primary market place for these http://companies.As As a web developer, you can pursue these career paths:

Front End Developer: A front end developer handles the face of the website. The user interface and the user interaction is designed by front end developers via various computer languages To land a job as a front end developer, you need to have knowledge in JavaScript, JQuery and AngularJS. The average salary package as a front end developer ranges from 4-6 LPA

Back-end developer: A back-end web developer can be considered who handles the brain of the website. From managing the database to molding the data appropriately is handled by the backend developers. They are also responsible for the correct data representation which is requested by the user from the front end. As a backend developer, you will be required to work with JavaScript, JSON, NodeJS,ExpressJS and Cloud. This again has shown a steady career growth in the field. The average salary package for a back End developer ranges from 5-7 LPA.

Full stack developer: It is a combination of skills required by both Front-end Developer as well Back-end Developer. The individual should have a vast variety of interest in multiple computer programming languages. This position deals with coding and designing. Highest salary in Web Development industry is being earned by MEAN Stack Developers. The average salary package for a mean stack developer ranges from 5-8 LPA

If you’re looking to gain higher pay as a software engineer, you should be focusing on the skill sets required in the product based industry.

What can I do to get to cement a job in the product based industry?

First, look to acquire the trending skill sets. It is the primary task you should do. How technologically updated you are is one of the major criteria that companies look at while hiring. In terms of acquiring skills, there are several online platforms that offer certification courses. Coursera, Udemy, SimpliLearn are a few platforms that offer online certification courses.

Second, practical execution of your knowledge through projects. This is something which will benefit you a lot in terms of the hiring process. Even though you might have acquired the required skills, there is no point if your practical execution is not efficient. Companies are looking to invest in your capabilities to execute your knowledge practically. One of the major reasons is being companies are looking to cut training costs and rather invest them in your salaries.

One of the well known online platforms that offers live projects within their training module would be edWisor. This platform solely focuses on web development and data science and also is in constant conversation with the top companies in the industry.
A$A$A
First off, congratulations to all those guys who get 10 lacs + in India, and 60 lacs + anywhere else in the world, at entry level. And I am talking about salaries, not just one time bonuses etc, which can be a part of these 2 cr package and all.

Now let’s see why do companies pay this kind of money? If you are having a package which is more than the curve, one this is for sure, you are not getting hired to do mundane BAU work, that is Business As Usual. You are getting hired to bring something more on the table, new dimension, new thought process.

All these companies do understand that a fresher will not bring a lot of new things, but these select folks, who are getting such packages, are going to bring that spark in terms of process engineering, a new product idea, a new way of doing the same thing, that might save them, or help them increase their revenue by millions of dollars.

Whenever you come across these kind of people, you will notice few things about them which are always common. They are always talking about questions, not answers. Like, how to do something in less than 10 seconds, how to load page .30 seconds faster, how user is going to use this additional .30 seconds, which ad can I show this person in this additional .30 seconds, what is the probability of this person clicking on this ad? How to increase the probability of clicking on ad… you see, every answer will lead you to a new question, and soon you are building not a product, not a process, but an ecosystem. A system which is self sustainable, every component is feeding the other component and there is a universe taking shape on digital platforms.

These people are getting these kinds of designation and packages because they have this mindset of creating an ecosystem, hell, even identifying the possibility of existence of an ecosystem.

Needless to say that you want to bet on someone who has showcased his/her worth somewhere, and when you have proven out to be top 1% of top 1% of a nation in multiple tests, quizzes, vivas, practicals, presentations, interviews, you should be getting the package , designation, freedom, support that top 0.0001% people DESERVE. Yep, that’s 1% of 1%.

Don’t focus on their packages, focus on the tests, hurdles, interviews and doubts that they had to clear to get to this position. Xth, XIIth, Prelim entrance, Subjective Entrance, 8 semesters of rigor, countless presentations, countless hours in labs, creating at least 4 projects, each one being better than the last, and with a different technology.

Now tell me, do you think that they are getting paid extra?

Now add the fact that most likely they will have to leave their families behind to travel to a different country, different culture, different environment, may be forever. In all probability if they help a company like Google, Apple, Facebook launch one product that is medium successful, they have paid back million times over for whatever they were hired for.

These guys won’t only contribute to economy, and balance sheet of FB and Google, but also be responsible for creating jobs, helping people like me work on a technology which never existed earlier. In all probability a 21 year old from IIT is probably responsible for my career.

So, again, well done guys, congratulations to you, and best of luck to realize your potential. We all do need you to be as successful as you can.
A$A$A
The students getting such offers will be posted in places where the cost of living is pretty high. They are not going to pay such amount to work in India.

It is 300000 US dollars and it involves a lot of hidden components which none will get in hand. Deduce the taxes which is 35% there and one ends with 200000 US dollars. Of this30% will be only for the highest performers or in terms of shares resulting in 91 lakhs in hand.

90 lakhs for a person in US is good pay equivalent to 10LPA in India considering the expenses and economics. For example a 2BHK flat rent is 15k in India and 1lakh in US.

Students are bright enough to get such offers otherwise those firms are not dumb enough to unnecessarily waste money.
A$A$A
These crore+ packages in news is just the conversion of US dollars in Indian Rupees, which is misleading because the cost of living in that countries is also very high and there expenses are also in dollars not in Indian rupee.

Average IITians don't get package in crores. The median salary offered vary between 10-15 lacs. There are a quite few students who are offered overseas job offers with payscale above Rs. 1 crore.

To see the actual placement packages read the following report by THE HINDU  ( At IITs, average offers are more modest )
A$A$A
They’re not huge packages.

In fact, it is very mediocre pay when you consider the places these companies are situated and the kind of taxes that they have to pay.

Entry level software engineers to these companies are usually paid around $100,000 dollars an annum (which is 60 lacs). The ‘2 crore package’ news that you see is nothing but a hyperinflation, taking stock bonuses, joining bonus and relocation bonus all into one.

With $100,000 in a place like San Francisco, you’ll struggle to make ends meet if you go in with a mindset of living the extravagant life. Out of the $100k, around $35–40k will go as taxes. That leaves you with around $60k.

SF Bay Area has one of the highest rent rates in the world. Even to rent a hut, you’ll have to shell out at least $20k a year. A decent house with all basic amenities will cost you around $30k. And forget about getting a new house. The minimum salary that can sustain the mortgage payments for the cheapest of houses in SF is $170,000; which is 70% more than what you earn. It’ll take you at least 5 years to command that kind of salary.

So, you’re left with $30k now. Labor is insanely costly in the United States. You’ll be paying people between $10 and $15 an hour for tasks such as plumbing, carpentering, mowing the lawn etc. There is no way you could afford a maid or a domestic worker with that kind of salary so expect to do all the cooking, cleaning and laundry yourself.

Even if you live on a frugal diet and spend very little on third party labor, the maximum you’ll end up saving is $2–3k. And if you’re the kind of person who likes spending the weekends out partying, then you won’t be left with even that. No wonder the Americans have close to zero lifetime savings.

So, if you think getting a job at one of these MNCs will make you rich beyond imagination, think again. It is only the beginning of your career. Don’t have unrealistic expectations about the kind of wealth you can accumulate at such a young age. Getting into these companies directly after college is, no doubt, a fantastic achievement but it’ll still take years before you can walk into any restaurant and order wine without gasping at the price tag.
A$A$A
All students at IITs don't get  packages of 2 crores. These are

cream of the crop and are in the top 100 students for the whole country of 130 crore.

This package is offered to students all around the world, who have worked as Interns at companies like Google, Microsoft, Facebook, etc.

These students have pursued excellence for 21 years, and success is following them now.
A$A$A
They do not earn in crores.The media loves to spice things up. The numbers that they display includes salary,assets,stocks, etc etc

Plus if you factor in the cost of living at the places where they are supposed to work, it’s wouldn’t seem to be such an astronomical value to you.

Don’t blindly follow what the newspaper says. They are PR minded at some levels

Also those who do manage to get good salaries well and truly deserve it(not the salary but the opportunity to get a better start to their life than their peers) for their intelligence and the amount of hard work that they had put on until then. But the number of people who do manage is very minuscule compared to the total number of people who try for it.

Perhaps all IITs should follow IIT-K example where the students were specifically asked not to disclose their salaries to the media.
A$A$A
Students at IITs are getting a package of 2 crores!!!!!!!!!!! hahahaha.

My dear friend its not students, it is one student or two only who get this job & few who gets a package more than 30-40 lacs. Rest [majority] falls under the average packages. 

Facebook, Google etc offers huge package, because they understand the importance of these creams in terms of their business development world wide. They appreciate these students and their depth of knowledge, sharpness, innovations, skills and moreover their smartness.
A$A$A
Let me tell you my story. I did my B.Tech in Metallurgy from IIT Kharagpur. I secured a CGPA of 9.22 and got placed in a steel company as Manager. My current CTC is about 9 lakhs. My live as a bachelor goes well with this money. But sometimes I feel I am an underachiever when I see that students from from college secure jobs of CTC 1–3 Crores.

Anyways, I also publish videos on YouTube. To get latest technology & investment updates, subscribe my channel. TarMon Talks

Here is one video I recently uploaded. Hope you all like it.

We’re starting to expect more and more out of our smart phones every year, but developments in battery longevity haven’t kept pace with other technological advances. Maybe that’s why one of the most common questions we hear is, “How can I extend my phone battery life?”

Here is absolutely everything you need to know about getting the most out of your phone battery life. 7 tips to increase your phone battery life !!!
A$A$A
BITS Pilani and old 5 IIT’S are most prestigious college in India.students are so smart here and very intelligent and they proved it because they cracked india's most challenging exams every good student dream about to study these institutions.. that is the reason .
A$A$A
You can refer the below link for answer with stats & real time data backup.

Am not joking; check for yourself & find out.

Rajeev Kumar's answer to Do students in IIT get 1 crore per annum?.
A$A$A
They give so high package because he get even higher cost value from students. As simple as that. If you could provide 20 crore profit to a conpany ..then why dont would they pay you 2 crore. They are paid because they have worked hard and are very skillfull. For the spectetors, they can either be jealous or can stop thinking about them ..and focus on there own field and accept the fact that is not everybodys cup of tea
A$A$A
First of all, less than 0.5% (or much lesser) of the IITians get the aforesaid package.

Secondly, those packages are for non-India based jobs (mostly US). The living cost in such countries are pretty damn high. Check Cost Of Living Comparison Between India And United States
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
When will all the President Trump bashing slow down a bit?
A$A$A
Just a few suggestions to the author of the question:

Nowadays many sites present content based on the user preferences, if you stop looking into themes associated to the subject and get interested in other things that content will get replaced, allowing you to successfully ignore the problem.

Maybe at some point try and look at what people are actually saying and think about their arguments. If you dismiss all of them as irrational bashing you are taking an extreme position and will therefore be wrong. The truth lies somewhere in the middle of both extremes and you would only be more enlightened if you opened your mind.

The criticism will not stop, it never did for any President, it may die down a bit if Trump becomes less extremist and starts to listen to the concerned people. Every action as an equal opposite reaction, all the negativity Trump receives results only from the negativity he expouses.
A$A$A
Well, what do you expect?

Some people who were paying attention to the primaries last summer saw ‘him’ for what he is (e.g. liar, egoist, bigot, racist, utterly corrupt, uneducated, and thus unsuitable for ANY position of power) even before he ‘won’ the primaries. Everything he’s done since has only made it clearer. Now people are finally waking up to what happened.

As I see it, there’s only one end here: you’ll need to deal with your own anger.

For that end, you have two options:

Option A, ignore the well-deserved bashing, and make the same mistake the alt-right has been for decades, by refusing to educate yourself.

Option B, take a closer look at things and actually think about whats being said. Consider why ‘he’ is getting bashed. Consider what ‘he’ does and says. Consider the facts and perhaps more importantly, consider how his actions affect yourself and everyone else.

Personally, what I saw from very beginning, left me with nothing but contempt.

If anything, there should be more.
A$A$A
Trump says he wants to cover more people with health insurance, but pay less for it. There’s only one way to do that: a single insurer that covers everyone living in the United States. It would cost less, yet be much better for everyone.

I think that if Trump repeals ACA and replaces it with health insurance that really will cover more people and cost less, a lot of Trump bashing would stop.

If he came to his senses and stopped talking about building a wall, the bashing would slow down.

If he prioritized education and poverty reduction, the bashing would slow down.

If he could straighten out the Republican party and make it see sense, the bashing would slow down.

If he did all these things, it might even stop. At least, from most Quorans.

Wikipedia

[edit] This graph compares US spending as a percent of GDP (gross domestic product) as compared to other nations that have universal (or near universal) coverage under either a single insurer or multiple insurers (Switzerland and Germany have private insurers that are quite profitable). Among these nations, only the US has many insurers without guaranteeing universal coverage. Notice how are costs are rising faster and we spend at least twice as much of our GDP on health care compared to the next closest nation. Yet we have less consumer satisfaction and poorer health outcomes than all the other nations on the list.

This illustrates my argument that the only way to improve quality of care and health outcomes while reducing the cost is to have universal insurance coverage with a benefit plan that is adequate for everyone. This is what Trump is promising, so either he breaks his promise or he implements the payment, coverage and access system every other industrialized nation in the world uses.
A$A$A
Hi. I think the simple answer is it won’t. There are several factors that build up to make Trump a prime target for criticism. Some of these are legitimate, particularly from an international point of view. I’ll try to rank some of these factors according to rising legitimacy, with those that have more to do with bashing first, and those that are legitimate criticisms last.

Trump has a very characteristic demeanor and physical appearance. His mannerisms and the phrases he’s fond of makes him easy to impersonate and an easy target for charicatures. His hair is a story on its own.

Republican presidents are harder to understand, at least for Europeans. We see our welfare systems and our effective regulations when it comes to environmental issues as vastly superior to the US system. Even before a republican president have explained their policies or produced results, we are biased against them, because their political platform is an implicit criticism of what we believe makes a good society.

Trump’s political language is very often vague, he throws around lots of “fantastic”, “great” and “huge”. But he’s rarely specific about what his solutions are. At this point, pointing out the error is correctly labeled criticism, not bashing.

Trump lies about what he’s said and done.

Trump is prone to discussing very serious matters in an off-hand way and has shown on several occasions that he’s unpredictable, whether the question is equality or foreign policy. He has mocked a journalist with disabilities, mocked a journalist by alluding to her period. He has discussed nuclear weapons in Japan and South Korea in a way that isn’t clear-cut when it comes to non-proliferation. He’s not clear when it comes to Russian violations of international law. In a way, I can understand that people think that it’s not that serious. Everyone has an uncle who floats opinions like these. It’s just that your uncle wasn’t trying to become the most powerful man in the world. And he certainly wasn’t inaugurated just the other day. Uncles don’t upset people with their bigotry, and their remarks certainly don’t put values and principles that people have fought for into question. When the US president makes a remark, the world not only listens to the words, it analyzes the full context, and it looks to the example. Governments adjust policies. Not weighing your words is dangerous in that position.

When Trump is specific, he’s frequently preposterous. Banning Muslims from the US? Building a wall on the Mexican border — and making Mexico pay? Re-introducing waterboarding? Proposing measures such as these leaves people such as me in a state of disbelief: Does he say this in jest to profit from the outraged responses? Or does he really mean it? One is a direct attack on the religious freedom on which the US was built. The other is hugely impractical, wildly expensive, of dubious effect and hardly enforcable when it comes to making Mexico pay. The last is blatantly advocating torture.

Of course, it happens that Trump is misrepresented. It happens that legitimate criticism is mixed with ad hominems. It still doesn’t change the fact that a large portion of the world, and, it seems, the US public, just can’t make their peace with the fact that he’s now president. They probably won’t for as long as it lasts. Therefore, they, as I, will probably continue to find reprieve in criticism. Let’s hope it’ll be legitimate criticism, because there’s enough of that to be made without resorting to the lesser options.
A$A$A
I understand your point, I actually have problem with this at home since my 18-year old son acknowledged Trump as president and he is disappointed that he hears too much “negative” things about the president. He chose Trump not for his character, but as better choice than Hillary, I quote him. A lot of people have changed in the way they converse and perceive things, I believe. The culture and climate has evolved. I personally metamorphosed into a very concerned DC employee and global citizen. I don’t see it as Trump bashing, though. We question Trump because we are intelligent. As intelligent and moral beings we have to be critical (high quality questioning, reflective, constructive) of others and ourselves, discerning, and always searching for truth. We aim to cultivate respectful and ethical minds. As long as we are such people, we constantly refute blatant lies and negate shallow thinking. For such reason, I doubt if Trump-bashing will ever slow down due to the message he delivers everyday. His Twitter account says it all- how he taunts, mocks, belittles, and lies.
A$A$A
It’s OK to feel triggered by the hate against Trump, it’s not your fault for having feelings. I know you had to go anonymous to ask this question because of those callous liberals and their hurtful trigger words, but it’s OK.

For a safe space to discuss Trump and meet other like-minded Trump supporters I’d suggest /r/The_Donald: Make America Great Again. The energy there is very positive, very supportive, and you can feel safe in airing your grievances against those that harass you online. Another good safe space that filters for triggering content is Breitbart News Network which is very positive towards Trump and has an active comments section for Trump supporters to give each other positive affirmations.

You can also check out the The Trump Coloring Book which features wholesome, non-aggressive content like Trump’s face on Mt. Rushmore, Trump making peace with aliens, and Trump showing North Korea who’s a winner at Connect-4 (spoilers: Trump).

Lets make Quora a safe, welcoming place for everyone!
A$A$A
To all those who say, "Hey, give him a chance. Maybe he'll do great." I don't care as much as you think I should. If he should magically turn around and do a terrific job, I will still despise him. I might even despise him more.

Why?

Because that would prove that he knew how to be a decent person and a good, honest, honorable man and businessperson all along, but CHOSE to behave for decades like an egotistical, sexist, racist, cheat, thief, contract-breaker, liar, serial adulterer, and overall blowhard braggart, and that still puts him even a step below Idi Amin on my personal chart of the world's least admirable human beings. If he were to spend the rest of his life rescuing drowning kittens, I would not care.
A$A$A
Yes, they will stop when he doesn't do and say things to invite the attacks.

Since his inauguration, it appears he has done almost everything wrong. To list just a few -

His illegal ban on immigration, his tweets attacking Nordstroms and Meryl Streep and others, the internal conflicts reported among his own staff, calling the President of Taiwan, antagonizing our allies Australia and Mexico, his insistence that there were 3,000,000 illegal votes cast in his election, his apparent ignorance about this latest scandal involving Mike Flynn (or was he?) - the list goes on and on.

The criticisms of Trump have been earned by Trump. He is on track to be the worst President this country has ever seen, because of the sheer volume and frequency of spectacular errors.

Every President gets constant criticism because they usually can't please everyone, no matter what they do. It's important to observe how they handle it. So far, Trump has not handled it well.
A$A$A
This is a rather hypocritical statement, but, finally you realize the extreme nuisance Obama and his supporters faced when he took office.

If Trump bashing for a few months already annoys you, imagine what Obama bashing for years would have felt like for not only Obamba and his supporters, but his family as well.

Tell me if I'm wrong, but there hasn't been a significant number of people calling Trump a “cracker” simply to legitimize their own case…
A$A$A
As a fervent, long-time Trump opponent, I have to tell you that this is not about you. It’s about illegal orders and racial bias and economic recovery plans that won’t ever work and souring relations with our allies and weakening our position in the world and ensuring that this idea about government for the people, by the people, and of the people shall not vanish from this earth. This is about sexism, this is about nepotism, this is about temperament, this is about conflict of interest.

I’m sure I’m missing a few.

You want people to quit bitching about injustice? Sorry, no.
A$A$A
I am British, so my views might be different from what you have heard.

For me what you call “Trump bashing” is howls of anguish and disbelief.

I constantly comment about Trump and criticise Trump, because I simply cannot believe that Americans could elect this man. He is completely dishonest and lies quite blatantly and obviously. He lies about things we know the facts about and that get reported, so this is not a matter of opinion.

So, given that Hillary Clinton was deemed by fact checker sites to be a pretty honest politician, only bettered by Bernie Sanders, the world was astonished that so many Americans chose to believe him rather than her.

Then there his his very dubious behaviour over his life. It is all there to read up. He treats employees badly. He treats women appallingly. He takes what he can get wherever he can get it. He refuses to pay contractors and does not care when he forces them out of business, despite liking the job they did. He has had links to the mafia. Everywhere his business have been there is a trail of destruction and suffering.

Again to most of the world this compared very badly with Hillary Clinton’s life of service to many good causes, right from when she first left university.

Now, despite claiming to “drain the swamp” he has filled his cabinet with rich, privileged people from the backgrounds that he was decrying during the election. A few where even from Goldmann Sachs! Hypocritical given the fuss that was made about HRC making a speech to them.

In addition he has appointed deeply ignorant people to cabinet posts, that education woman, Betsy DeVos, defies belief. She knows nothing and yet has campaigned for years to destroy public education, what we call state education. He put Ben Carson in the cabinet for heaven’s sake! That man must be one of the most ridiculously stupid people to ever be in public life, watch some of the interview he gave during the primaries - there is nobody at home there at all.

Then Trump says very disturbing things about NATO, seems to admire authoritarian politicians and have a thing for Putin and some sort links to Putin too.

Added to which he continues to lie about unimportant things as though they really, really get to him, like crowd size at the inauguration.

So, you see a great many of us just cannot believe what we see. The man defies belief. He is so utterly bizarre, so unsettling, so ridiculous really that we just have to comment and that comment is not going to be positive is it ?

And I haven’t even started on policy!

I, and everyone I have ever discussed this with, find it impossible to understand how you could support, even half heartedly, a man like this. He is clearly a liar and has almost no grasp of reality or what is important and lacks any sense of decency or morals and the world is in shock that he has been elected.

Added to which his speeches lack gravitas, eloquence and elegance. They do not suit the position he holds. He lacks class and elegance I suppose.

None of this is just my views either, this is all fact, so cannot count as Trump bashing.
A$A$A
There is going to be about 30% on either side in America that are so adamantly opposed the a President of the other party that their vitriol is off the charts. It seems worse with social media than before. There is a lot of anti-Trump stuff that is over the top just as there is anti-Obama stuff that is over the top.

How does one stop criticism in general? By doing a very good job with actions not words.

The success of an American president isn’t going to be measured on the first or second day after assuming office or even one month later. It’s going to be assessed going into the midterms elections.

It seemed absurd for the Nobel Committee to award Obama the Peace Prize prior to him doing anything but give a few excellent speeches. Two years later, Obama took what he himself described as a “shellacking” during the midterms despite great amounts of adulation thrown his way by major media and foreign leaders.

We’ll see what happens in Trump’s turn. Don’t expect the Trump bashing to slow down for awhile.

The great thing about Quora is that you can just read what you would like, adjust your feed and block writers that you don’t want to show up on it as well. There are many wonderful answers and stories posted on Quora that have to do with life and not with politics.

But there is also a lot of measured, thoughtful and well written anti-Trump stuff and it’s valuable to read things that do not just confirm our biases. Getting out of the echo chamber is healthy.
A$A$A
if you were really a half-hearted Trump supporter, the bashing wouldn’t bother you as much, so I think you’re either downgrading your support here or you are generally touchy about critcism.

It takes me back eight years ago when a young senator from Illinois was attacked about his birth, his education, his religion….nonstop for almost the whole of his eight years as president.

In fact our current president did most of that “movement”. It just seems like it’s a lot now that the shoe is on the other foot. It’s a bit of cultural shock for you, you’ll get used to it.

Trump concedes Obama was born in the U.S.

I would suggest you avoid the web and TV for the next few months, people get bored, tired and generally focus on other things. Even Trump will get old.
A$A$A
I am an American living overseas. During The Obama presidency, he got some coverage but not a huge amount except in stories that relates directly to him and major economic, political or international news.

Of the stories I remember most about Obama where he got extensive coverage:

Trips overseas. Yes, Obama had a Correos truck following him when he came to Spain as part of his motorcade. If he wanted to stop and send a postcard home, a truck would rush deliver it for him. When he visited Canberra, the locals whined and complained that he created a 15 minute long traffic jam.

He opened up Cuba. Hurray! Now all The Spaniards needed to get there before it was filled with American tourists.

Same-sex marriage becoming legal had some coverage featuring Obama.

Iran sanctions ending made the news, as part of Obama’s lasting legacy.

Obama getting behind the common sense policy of letting people use the bathroom of their self-identified gender was applauded.

There are probably more, but other US news dominated a lot of the coverage. This included the presidential elections, sports, a million weather stories, US economic outlook, etc.

Big big stories about the US overseas appear to me to fall into a few general categories:

weather. Extreme weather.

sports. (Though not often because, yawn, US sports unless someone from that country played for a team like the Chicago Bulls.)

Terrorism and gun violence.

Black Lives Matter during its peak. Other stories that highlight the United States being backwards on human rights issues. Or if not backwards, at least being hypocritical.

Economic stories that impacted local to that country’s market and economy.

Hollywood and celebrity news. Major international awards won by Americans. Famous Americans visiting a place.

American tourists being interviewed for their thoughts on something, often tourist or sports related.

Political news that had international and maybe domestic implications.

This was not Obama on a daily basis. Despite the big US pivots on Iran and Cuba, Obama was relatively risk averse. If not risk averse, the risk presented by Obama changing his (and thus the US federal) position could be reasonably well managed with thoughtful planning.

This contrasts with Trump. He hits, not including sports or weather, a lot of those general areas that warrant increased coverage of the United States. He also does so in a way that draws increased negative attention and criticism internationally by more stable democracies not led by “big men” type leaders.

Trump glorifies in his celebrity status. He revels in it. He can be used as a classic example of that Ugly American that is hated in many places around the globe. These types of people just invite additional criticism overseas. You want to be hated by your waiter and have them talk behind your back? Do what Trump does. He just personifies that classic Ugly American attitude, and people respond to that loathing by reflecting it back. They are not going to shut up about celebrity Trump who hates on everybody while thinking he and the USA (well Trump’s USA) are the best thing ever.

Trump’s attitude while sitting in the chair of the leader of the free world is coupled with his impulsivity. Obama did not make the news and get as much criticism because he was a known and manageable risk that could be planned around. You could spend 2 to 3 years constructing a factory in Mexico to manufacture parts for cars made in Mexico under Obama. With Trump, 2 to 3 years out for planning? Not feasible. It looks like if it takes more than a week, then your planning timetable in certain places is too long. Trump just brings unmanageable risk and uncertainty.

And people hate unmanagable risk and uncertainty. Markets do too. The international global economy is so heavily linked that Trump could take to Twitter and with 15 well placed Tweets cause a major economic downturn. Trump creates that much uncertainty. The markets just cannot process it all because they cannot even see it coming, and they do not know how he’ll act.

If you think your national economic wellbeing and long term government budget planning is in the hands of a man with a Twitter account in the USA who you cannot plan around? Yeah. The criticism will come and it will not stop.

Criticism of Trump internationally will continue and get louder and worse. If he implements a third of what he talked about at his press conference, you’ll never hear the end of it. The only way for the criticism of Trump to lessen internationally is for Trump to stop creating so much risk and market uncertainty. This needs to be coupled with creating less global political uncertainty. Finally, he needs to stop representing a caricature of the classic Ugly American. If he can do that, the level of international criticism would put him on par with Obama.

It just seems incredibly unlikely. If you’re a Trump supporter, be prepared for large amounts of criticism coming from overseas in ways that make the Bush years seem like everyone loved Bush. (And they did not.) It will not go away. Old dogs do not learn new tricks.
A$A$A
It will slow down only when Trump and his band of liars slow down on the lies.

 “This was the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration — period — both in person and around the globe.”

—White House press secretary Sean Spicer, remarks to reporters, Jan. 21, 2017

“I looked out, the field was — it looked like a million, million and a half people.”

—President Trump, remarks to the CIA, Jan. 21, 2017

Spicer earns Four Pinocchios for false claims on inauguration crowd size

And then there was the Sunday morning Meet The Press “alternative facts” comment by Kellyanne Conway. After wearing the clown outfit I guess she decided the public still needed more proof she is a bona fide dolt. Kellyanne Conway’s Inauguration Outfit Sets Twitter Abuzz: Reactions

You’re going to hear about “alternative facts” for a long time. It describes Trump rather well. In defense of Kellyanne, could anyone have a more impossible job than defending what comes from Trump’s flapper? But, hey, she asked for it.
A$A$A
Have you considered that maybe there’s some truth to it? Have you ever taken a psychology course? Do you know what a sociopath is? Trump is not just a Republican who is being bashed by Democrats for being a Republican. Are you willing to actually look into any of the things people are saying, or do you just want to complain about what you think is unfair? I’m serious here - do you want to actually know the truth about Trump, or are you more interested in being “annoyed”?

He lies incessantly, he’s a spoiled rich kid with no humility, he’s extremely quick to anger. Do those qualities make you feel good about him having the codes to unleash nuclear annihilation?

I’d be more than happy to give you examples to support my opinion if you are willing to actually dig in and check them to see if they’re factual. And I’m willing to research what you have to say about why any of the Trump bashing is not factual. But it has to be ALL facts, no emotions, no bashing. If you REALLY want to know, let’s play.
A$A$A
It takes two people to make a fight. Trump started out his political efforts by bashing Obama with the whole birther fantasy. Beginning of FAKE NEWS might come from Trump. Then he bashed Mexicans, disabled people, women and if you need more types go here: Google. So we have established that his tweets and speeches were the opening strikes in his political efforts. Does an uncivil person deserve civility? You say that you are half hearted so you must have some reservations. GO WITH YOUR GUT FEELINGS. He is a despicable example of the how low human beings can stoop. This is not a man who any country should have for a leader. Is someone who has proven himself to engage in sexual abuse (from his own words) someone you want to emulate? Or more importantly your children.
A$A$A
When does one quit complaining about something that is seriously wrong? Answer that question and you answer this question. Here are some examples: When would you stop complaining if you found out you had a disease that could kill you within the year? When would you stop complaining if your child were kidnapped? When would you stop complaining if your house burned down? When would you stop complaining if someone stole your identity?

When the problem, the disease, the disaster, or the miscreant who stole from you is removed, gone, no longer threatening to your health, wellbeing or survival, you may decide to stop complaining. The reason would be removed. You will naturally stop complaining because there is hope for balance to be restored and that is an instinctive drive within healthy human beings. If complaining is the only tool you have to work with, you do so. You start petitions, take to the streets, push back, do whatever you can to complain loud enough to raise the dead…literally in this case.

This guy has hoisted his toxic, smothering weight on the people of this country. He is making decisions that are indicative of a deranged psychopath. He doesn’t know what he is doing. He doesn’t belong where he is, and we are no longer in Kansas anymore.

Stability is not in this country any longer and before long America will garner no respect from the rest of the world. Do you GET that? The White House has gone over to the dark side. So when the constant threat that is this madman is removed, the complaining will stop. People are not complaining because they like to hear the pain in their own voices. Life is hard enough. They are complaining because they have a valid cause to complain. They have a thought process that is serving them and showing them who this player really is. Who he really is, is nauseating.

He will leave behind him a wake of failures, and leave us with more work to do than we could imaging just to get back to where we were. That he is president is truly insane. I am not kidding here. It is the height of insanity and there are enough insane people in control behind the scenes that he got in, cause it wasn’t through any Democratic process, I’ll tell you that. He knows it too. That is why he keeps harping on his beloved ‘voting fraud’. He wants to appear ‘righteous’ and desiring of honestly. THAT is the biggest laugh of all time. He does not desire honesty because honesty doesn’t serve him. Anything and everything he does is an “angle” into some stupid self aggrandizing agenda. You and I do not exist in Trumpville.

What you are doing, is chastising people who are complaining about a Cancer in the WhiteHouse. When will you recognize the good bacteria from the lethal bacteria?

Trump is no president. For all we know he has given the job over to Ivanka and Bannon and he is making appearances. Let’s get real.
A$A$A
I think that depends on Trump. When he makes a big deal out of the size of his inauguration crowd, his spokespeople talk about “alternative facts”, or he issues gag orders… those remind people that the guy is a bit unhinged and potentially dangerous. You add that his rather long résumé of eyebrow-raising statements and actions, such as bashing the intelligence community, and it’s hard to see it slowing down. It’s as if he enjoys stoking the fire.
A$A$A
Remind me again when did the Obama bashing stop? Oh yeah…it didn’t! Now those who bashed Obama, throughout his two terms all of a sudden think it’s wrong to bash the President.

I posted facts after facts about Trump’s lies, scandals and cheating behavior. Trump supporters didn’t care. Facts? Poof, who cares about facts. They didn’t support their false beliefs so they were ignored or people just didn’t care. Every President before Trump was expected to show their taxes, get rid of any conflicts of interest, be free of scandals, to prove they could unite a fractured country, but not Trump. Since day 1 of Trump’s presidential campaign he was given leeways to behavior that no one else was given.

To this day I still do not understand how they could have and still blindly support a man like Trump. There were better alternatives in the Republican party, at least sane ones, but noooo Trump supporters didn’t care about sanity or facts. They wanted Trump. They hated Hillary and the Democrats and it seems they even hated the Republicans. Voting for someone like Trump seemed to be all they cared about.

And he is the worst of all choices. He is now proving that every single day of his Presidency and still Trump supporters are loyal to him. It is unbelievable. Voters demanded so much from every President before him and yet not only do they not place the same demands on this egotistical, narcissistic person, some actually applaud his outrageous, awful behavior.

Oh and still Facts mean nothing to them! The media brings up facts about Trump, even videos proving his own behavior and words and Trump and his followers call them false. I mean the words are coming from his own mouth and his supporters don’t believe they are true. I feel they could be there in person when he talks BS and they would still say he didn’t say BS!

Trump has done nothing since his inauguration that shows he is interested in bringing us all together. He may say he wants to unite us, but his actions say the opposite. He is immature, throws temper tantrums. His tweeting shows Trump is a person who cannot control his impulsive behavior. This is a dangerous behavior.

He always has to be right, he can’t deal with any type of criticism or any of his advisors suggesting his ideas may not be the best idea at that time or ever. He is surrounding himself with yes men and those who know how to manipulate him. He has surrounded himself with white supremacists, liars, rich CEOs and inexperienced people. He still continues to belittle those who don’t agree with him. I mean the man is supposed to show some maturity and class, but he instead mocks people. His behavior is demeaning and wrong for the position he is now in. And he continues to lie, or he is delusional, perhaps both.

He wants to control the media because they won’t report his lies and lousy behavior as factual or good. He threatens everyone who won’t agree with him.

His cabinet choices are people with no experience and in many cases have actively went against the groups and their positions, that these people may actually be heading. Unbelievable!.

Now he is trying to place Bannon in a position over the Head Chiefs of Staff and the Intelligence agencies when it comes to his NSC meetings. I mean that is scary stuff!

And this ban he has just enacted. The ban that is for 7 Muslim controlled countries, that Trump says he is protecting the U.S from because of 9/11 and other attacks on U.S soil even though none of these attacks were caused by people from these 7 countries.

Interestingly Yemen was one of these 7 countries, a place Trump just happened to have had the military attack 2 days after the ban went into effect.

The ban that was partially stopped because of Federal Judges that was ignored by the Customs and Border Patrol and Homeland security. Both groups were not supposed to include those with green cards, but they decided to ignore that also and went after green card holders, people who have already been vetted and accepted. Most were treated deplorably!

They broke the legal rights of these people by refusing them the right to a lawyer even though the Judges had told them to allow them their lawyers. By demanding to see their phones and social media and emails without their lawyers present. They detained people who were disabled, elderly, and even children, handcuffing them and locking them up for long hours.

Then Trump and his speaker lied and belittled the horrible treatment these people went through, including supporting having a 5 year old child who was also an American citizen handcuffed and detained without his parents.

Even our allies are against what Trump has done.

My question is why aren’t more people against Trump and his behavior?
A$A$A
There are 3 parts to remember of answer .

Donald is extremely unliked, the least popular elected president in history. His appalling business acumen and lack of public service record means he is purely judged on his words, his insistence on not showing any tax records as is the norm and implications into collusion with the Kremlin make even his words hard to take at face value.

His policies have been rejected by the masses, they have also been rejected by history, Donald's isolationism was a precursor to the Great Depression, Donald's trickle down taxation hailed in the Reagan deficits. There is sever reasons people protest Donald the main one is his policies and are failures already before he implements them.

Obama was a hugely popular president when elected and throughout the next 8 years, his policies were bipartisan and he left office with the highest approval rating since records have been kept. Republicans for 8 years demanded there was scandal were none existed, questioned his motives, his citizenship and his authority. Trump as king birther as a private citizen questioned the authorityand legality of a popular president, for this reason alone every citizen reserves the right to question the authority and legality of a unpopular president.

now simply when will the majority of Trump bashing stop?, when he puts in place popular logical policies embraced by the majority of citizens that directly enhance their quality of life. When he rejects policies of isolationism based on nationalism, when he stops bullying celebrities, corporations, opponents, based on sex, race, disabilities. When he releases his tax returns as promised, and IC confirm after a thorough investigation that there is no ties between Trump and his campaign and the Kremlin. simply put acting presidential would go some way. But simply it will never stop even if he won over the hearts and minds of a majority simply because a large percentage of the population find racism repulsive and Donald's lack of respect for Obama demanding papers etc. For most was too much to stomach, they see it as a patriotic role to ensure he stays as weak as day one and his honeymoon is fleeting.
A$A$A
Let me present a comparison from history. I don’t include myself amongst her fans, but it is inarguable that, while being divisive, overall Thatcher is the most popular modern UK prime minister.

Yet she was bashed throughout her entire tenure as PM, and then continually afterwards. Even her death had no impact on the bashing. In fact it led to more bashing. If you ever wanted a perfect illustration of the hard-left’s love of pointless demonstrations, look to the Anti-Thatcher demonstrations at her funeral. There are still many who object whenever her name is put forwards as a nominee for a list of powerful or important women or politicians.

All politicians get bashed, and the further they stray from the centre ground, politically or morally, the more people bash them.

Now lets have a think about Trump’s popularity. this chart of the world’s opinion of high profile Western politicians.

You think Trump’s going to get an easier ride than Thatcher did?

Trump will be bashed for the rest of his life and for long after. His values are detestable to a very vocal, and quite large, minority. Even if he accomplished absolutely everything he has promised about restoring American greatness, their opinion of him will not change, because they don’t even agree with much of what he says he wants to achieve.

The people who are bashing him hate everything they think he represents to their very core. That hate is an important part of their identities. They are people who thrive on that hate. From their point of view “accepting” Trump as President would be a political act akin to joining the KKK. It’s never going to happen.
A$A$A
My guess? We should all get used to it.

He’s a historically bad candidate, elected with three million less votes than his opponent, who ran on a platform of lies and deceit, and who is going to reap a whirlwind of ills upon the country.

As the situation worsens, so will the criticisms.
A$A$A
I can tell you, but you aren’t going to like the answer. It’s entirely up to Trump. He’s not being bashed because of who he is, he’s being bashed because of what he’s said and done. Here are a few “life goals” that would absolutely calm things down:

Stop the 3AM Hate Tweeting.

Stop petty attacks on the weak, on the press, on other opponents. Respect their right to dissent, and be larger than that. Because that is a big part of the job description. President Obama could and would help you on this.

Stop the blatant lying, no one’s being fooled. It’s the height of insanity to simultaneously make the claim that his Inauguration was the most watched in history, a tging that the non-record but still large crowd, hundreds of thousands of people, witnessed in person and know to be false.

Stop claiming you’ll build a wall and Mexico will pay for it. Mexico won’t pay for it. The wall will not help. Get some scientists to explain ladders, tunnels, and seas to you. Then get the border people to explain to you that illegal immigration is at a historical low. Next, get an economist to explain to you that a border tariff is a tax on American consumers, not a tax on Mexico.

Fire the Kakistocracy you’re building and get some good people in place. Yes, those people will be smarter than you, and we all know your advice is to only hire people who are not as smart as you. But as President, you can bring in some of the very best people in each government specialty. Rather than the current group of beginners. Smarter people will make you a better President. Dumber people, inexperienced people, and yes men will guarantee a disaster. History always gets such evaluations correct.

Eliminate the many, many racists you’ve hired or are trying to hire. Stephen Bannon, Jeff Sessions, Michael Flynn, Steven Mnuchin, Mike Pompeo, Kris Kobach, etc. Neo-Nazi activist Andrew Anglin dubbed this a “Daily Stormer Dream Team in the Trump administration.” Former KKK Imperial Dragon David Duke heaped praise on Trump for a number of these appointments, particularly Bannon and Flynn. You don’t become the President of everyone with an administration built only for racist white people.

Russia. Order an investigation of the Russian hacking scandal. Fully disclose any Trump Organization or personal financial ties to Russia, including a release of your tax returns. Eliminate the numerous individuals in or entering your Administration with strong ties to the Russians, such as Flynn (again), Carter Page, Roger Stone, Rex Tillerson, Paul Manafort, it’s another long list. The Russian campaign against us was one of social manipulation — no possible way to say for certain if it gave Trump the election. But his surrounding himself with advisors and cabinet officials with huge and well documented ties to Russia, his refusal to offer any proof he’s not deeply in debt to Russia, and his constant denial of the basic truth of the hacking screams “collusion” and “illegitimacy”. The innocent don’t need to hide or cover up with lies.

Stop promising to bring back the manufacturing infrastructure of the 19th Century while working hard to destroy the manufacturing, clean energy, and djgital infrastructure of the 21rst century. We are not going to bring back the coal industry, which was already in trouble when Kennedy ran for office. We do have a shot at becoming the global leader in clean energy technologies, a thing you’re planning to fight against. We are not firing robots and hiring $1/hour workers to replace them. Let’s build the digital economy, let’s build the robot economy, let’s build the IoT economy. Which means:

Stop trying to kill education in this country. No, we didn’t need so much education back when everyone had a high-ish paying factory job slapping on the same ten bolts everyday on an auto assembly line. But now you have the T1000, R2D2, Gort, The Pink Robots, AWESOM-O 4000, Robbie, that whole gang doing it 100x faster for the cost of electricity and occasional maintainence. In few years, they’ll be driving all the big rigs. We need an educated public to stave off this gradual slide into a third-world economy. Not everyone can work at McDonalds, either. Border walls, physical or economic, will not fix things. Forget about the disturbingly unfit DeVos, who seems to know absolutely nothing about public schools (or grizzly bears). Hire a person who actually understands this to run Education, then figure out how to make college free. Look at what Germany did here.

Take the job seriously and stop being so lazy and narcissistic that you think you know it all already. Things you don’t understand will damage our economy, damage our position in the world, and kill people. Those things may happen anyway, but a person going in with such an abysmal lack of understanding and not even bothering to learn, that’s a tanker full of disaster looking to wreck on America Beach.

Refuse to just say crazy shit. Yes, that won you the election, but it’s no basis for a system of government. Only speak of things you have bothered to educate yourself on. And you’ll only do that if the people around you know more about these things, today, than you do.

Stop trying to be Kim Jung Un or Vlad Putin when it comes to the press. The press is critical to our Democracy, and if you’re fighting them, you’re on the wrong side in the battle to preserve Democracy. If you’re doing good things, they will not attack you. If they attack you, maybe listen to what they have to say and learn from it.

Meet with your experts (once you find some), decide what your policy is on any given subject, write it down, and stick with it. Stop flip-flopping on everything. Again, an effective campaign technique the way you did it, but no basis for a country’s future plans. Just that uncertainty could lead to big financial problems.

Either actually try to be the President for Us All or stop say that. Embracing the radical right and calling those who voted against you “losers” is no way to be accepted by the 75% of the country that didn’t vote for you.

When you make a promise, keep it. If you’re really not planning to dismantle Social Security and Medicare, tell us. You might have noticed that Congress is making those plans. If you actually have a plan to “repeal and replace”, put it out there. If it’s good, the critics will vanish. If it’s a head-fake, we’ll all know soon enough anyway.

Understand and embrace the fact that we live in an era of perfect information and perfect retention. Build your Administration embracing that fact — no one forgets what you say, no one loses the videotape, no real journalist is not going to call you on a lie or a broken promise. Sure, you can build yourself an American Pravda out of Brietbart or Infowars or whatever, but no thinking people believe them today, much less if they become an official propaganda arm of the Trump Administration. Great men, great leaders, and particularly great Presidents have no need for lies and propaganda. Only cowards fear the truth.

I could go on. And mostly, I’m not even demanding that Trump magically turn Democratic or anything — that’s not necessary. We have had Republican Presidents in the past who I would say became good leaders, despite my not agreeing with many of their policies. But it’s one thing to have a different opinion on how to deal with the same objective fact, it’s another to have a President or Cabinet Member who sees butterflies and unicorns where the rest of the thinking world sees chaos, destruction, and failure.

Trump is not going to change. I’d love to be wrong on that.. I really, really would. Maybe he’ll get an idea that, since he accidently actually became President, maybe he’d like to be remembered by History as a good or even great leader, not a facist demagogue. Not the guy who killed people in unnecessary wars, not the guy who tripled the deficit again, not the guy who destroyed America’s status as the world’s remaining Superpower, not the guy who pushed half the country to third-world status.
A$A$A
You asked, "When will all the President Trump bashing slow down a bit?"

Fascinating question. I looked at it from a viewpoint slightly differentt from most of the other responses.

I have also noticed President Trump's continual bashing. When will it slow down? I don't expect that it will. It's his style; it's what he does. It's been his style for at least his whole adult life. He's 70 years old; it's unlikely to change.

In 2005, when respected journalist Tim O'Brien published a well-researched, even-handed book about Trump in which, among other things, he laid out the facts showing that Trump was worth a few hundred million dollars -- and not the several BILLION dollars that Trump has claimed for many years -- Trump bashed O'Brien for being "dishonest", "stupid", "a loser", "a total whack job". And then Trump filed a $5 billion lawsuit against O'Brien, claiming the reporter had unfairly damaged Trump's reputation. Trump picked a fight with the wrong guy. After a few years of Trump's delaying providing the information requested by the court, the court finally looked at the facts and threw Trump's case out of court. Not surprisingly, Trump had his lawyers file an appeal. The higher court threw out Trump's case as well. Trump didn't just lose; he was publicly humiliated -- all by his own doing.

In 2011, when Trump was publicly considering a possible presidential run, he decided to start bashing President Obama by launching a public brouhaha about where President Obama was born, claiming no one had seen Obama's birth certificate, and further announcing that he had sent private investigators to Hawaii to see what theycould find. The case had already long-since been laid to rest by most of the other "birthers", but the President nonetheless released his birth certificate; the state of Hawaii confirmed it. Instead of publicly apologizing, Trump said that he was "proud of myself because I've accomplished something nobody has been able to accomplish." Proud, indeed. Then, five years later, when confronted by Secretary Clinton in a debate about what he had said and done back then, Trump claimed that no, he hadn't done that, it was Clinton herself who had started the birther debate.

In July of 2015, early in his campaign, he bashed American war hero, Sen. John McCain -- who sustained years of torture in a Vietnamese prison, without "cracking" -- for NOT being a war hero, because he was captured by the enemy.

In August of 2015, after the Republican candidates' debate, he bashed debate moderator Megyn Kelly for having "blood coming out of her eyes, blood coming out of her wherever", because she had quoted things he had actually said and had asked him a question for which he had no good answer. Then, when criticized by other members of the press for his vicious and demeaning attack on her, he first tried to deny saying it, though it was on videotape, then continued to bash Kelly as well as other members of the press for reporting it.

Much of Trump's bashing of others is simply his own attempts to discredit others' criticism of him. Rather than arguing rationally to defend things he may have said or done, for which he is being criticized, he instead simply lashes out at the critic, or the press who reports it, or anyone else he can find who will provide a route for him to attack when he can't defend his own actions.

The month after he bashed Megyn Kelly, in September, he bashed one of his Republican opponents, Carly Fiorina, for her physical appearance, because, apparently, that's an important factor to Mr. Trump in how we should select our President.

That December, when TIME Magazine chose Angela Merkel as Person of the Year, and Trump had been hoping he'd get the honor, he blasted TIME for not choosing him even though, he declared, he was "the big favorite"; he then bashed Merkel for "ruining Germany".

In March of 2016, when Trump's opponent Ted Cruz pointed out Trump's telling different things to different audiences, and playing loose with facts, Trump simply turned the charge around and bashed Cruz with the same charge, by calling him "Lyin' Ted", using his skills as an entertainer to get the charge to stick.

When Trump was being sued last year for having defrauded his Trump University customers out of many tens of millions of dollars, he attempted to intimidate the judge in the case and in fact bashed our whole system of having an independent judiciary, claiming he could not get a fair judgment from the court… because the judge's parents had immigrated to the US from Mexico.

In July of 2016, he belittled the Muslim parents of a US solder, Capt. Humayun Khan, killed in action fighting for the US… because they were Muslim.

In the months May-November of 2016, with increasing public and press interest in his continual lying on the campaign trail, his refusal to turn over his tax returns, and the growing public scrutiny in his decades of shady business practices, he decided that the best way to distract people from noticing all that was to start referring to his Democratic opponent as "Crooked Hillary".

Trump remains what he has always been: a superb entertainer. He's done some real estate development over the years, but as has been reported, he mainly made his money by simply having the good fortune of using loans from his father, and then the assets of their company, to buy real estate in New York City in the 1970s, at a time when prices were really low because the city was in trouble, and then selling it later when the prices had gone up considerably, while gradually learning that, while he wasn't particularly good at running a business, taking about half a dozen of them into bankruptcy over the years, he could make more money by talking up the value of his brand name and then licensing it to others who could turn it into money making businesses, with him then getting a percentage of their action. Smart business model.

That will likely continue, even while Trump is President. Notwithstanding his commitment, when he began his candidacy, to self-fund his campaign, he in fact spent relatively little of his own money on his campaign -- with the amount of money spent on his election, he could not have afforded to fund even any significant percentage of it himself anyway, let alone all of it. Now that he won the election, as a minority President, he has done virtually nothing to resolve the massive conflict of interest issues he has, far larger than any other President in our history. Assuming that continues, his wealth, however large or small it may be, will continue to grow during his term as President, as he maintains direct ownership of his businesses, as his children run his businesses for him and for his and their benefit, and as he makes sure that he takes no action as President that could significantly hurt his business interests around the world.

And the bashing? It's what he does. It's what he's continued to do in just the two weeks of tenure in office he's enjoyed so far. There's no reason to think it will stop.
A$A$A
Are you getting tired of Trump’s, Kellyanne Conway’s, and Sean Spicer’s continual and really ridiculous lying? No?

Well, then I guess we’re not done calling Trump and his minions out on every single lie they tell, and every single unconstitutional act he does. Are you done with Trump jailing journalists, shutting down actual factual news, denying truth and screaming FAKE NEWS every time the truth is told, faking crowd numbers against scientific proof, dismantling protections for the environment, his treason with Russia, installing absolutely unqualified and corrupt people to high positions, breaking national laws regarding emoluments clause, lying about making Mexico paying for a wall and then telling us WE’RE paying for it? Faking a photo op of Trump writing his inaugural speech, then finding out White Supremist Bannon wrote it and plagiarized at least three paragraphs of it? Are you tired of the truth being made lies, and Trump’s lies being (badly) presented as truth? Ar you tired of Trump doing everything in his power to create a new Nazi-style regime on the backs of the American people?

Are you tired of any of those things yet? No? Then we’re not done yet, either.
A$A$A
To be blunt, never. Obama-bashing never slowed down. Even if Trump were like Romney, there should be no expectation that what was deemed vital against the goose should and will be disallowed for the gander.

Diehard Trump supporters loved to mock liberals for supposedly being “sensitive snowflakes”. And then the shoe was put on the other foot. Turns out sensitivity to criticism of one’s candidate and other things one values is just human nature.

He’s a president of the US with authoritarian impulses. The expectation should have been that he would face constant criticism.

I am a loyal Democrat, and was an enthusiastic HRC supporter. I expected nothing less than that she would not be criticized any less had she won. If she were closing out the first week of her presidency now, she’d be under fast and furious criticism.
A$A$A
They aren’t bashing Trump. People are genuinely afraid of him. He is the most powerful man on Earth. Every word he utters creates a consequence.

Regardless of the party or the person, every President before Trump understood this responsibility and acted accordingly. Trump has shown every day and in every way that either he hasn’t a clue what he’s saying or doesn’t care how much damage his words inflict on individuals, groups, or America’s reputation.

His comments have already empowered bigots to act violently. Hard-won civicl liberties, gay rights, women’s rights are on the endangered list.

If Trump singled you out as a threat to America and that you should be tossed out of the country, how would you feel? He’s done just that to Mexican Americans and Muslims in America and that’s just for starters.

If you can’t see yourself in the shoes of a Mexican American or an American Muslim, that’s precisely why you support Trump.
A$A$A
Until one of two things happens: either he somehow becomes a good president — given the horrible crap he’s done in his first weekend in office, this possibility is extremely remote at this point — or he stops being president altogether.

Remember, the Trump bashing is 100% deserved. I don’t like it any more than you do, and that’s why I voted for his opponent. But the people who put him in office are clearly OK with it, so yeah.

The Trump bashing is also not pointless. Again, the Trump bashing is 100% deserved. Hopefully, people like you who aren’t yet on board will see the criticisms and change your position. (It probably won’t happen; people of all political stripes don’t usually like to change their minds, especially when they’re being mocked. But it feels good to mock Trump and his clearly misguided supporters. I apologize on behalf of the millions of Americans who mistakenly believe that they can change Trump supporters’ minds with facts and mockery.)

If you want it to stop, here’s what you can do. In 2018, vote for Democrats across the board who will put a stop to Trump’s craziness, both at the local level and at the federal level. If Trump isn’t actually doing damage, he won’t be bashed as much. And, of course, in 2020, vote for his opponent, whoever it happens to be. With Trump out of office, people may make fun of him occasionally — he’s eminently mockable — but it won’t be ubiquitous with him out of the spotlight.
A$A$A
Maybe after he releases his tax returns, stops being an agent for Russia, respects women and stops cheating on his wife, proposes legislation that helps people and not take away their health care or kill them (just reinstating the Mexican gag rule today will kill many), and lies a LOT less. And stops obsessing about his ratings and lying about them.

Because when he's still doing all that crap the “bashing” (some call it “telling the truth” or “quoting him”) is entirely appropriate.
A$A$A
Buckle up, we'll be here for a while;

OR

Don't hold your breath;

Are probably the nicest ways to say it's not going to stop until he's out of office.

Those of us who were (are) Wholehearted supporters of President Obama dealt with this for the last 8 years.

It has slowed down some since Trump took office, but those who vocally bashed Obama haven't exactly stopped.

I'm sorry this is aggravating to you, but what's aggravating to me is that you, by your own admission, don't even fully support Trump (“So I am a half hearted Trump supporter…”), yet what bothers you about the current situation in this country enough to post a question, is people commenting negatively on him and the job he's doing as President.

Not the fact that we have an administration that rejects the opinions of judges, intelligence services, other branches of government. Or the fact that they'd rather openly LIE about trivial data to appease the ego of their new boss. Or use their position to market brands owned by the president's daughter.

If it bothers you, either learn to tune it out and deal with it, or stop frequenting sites, apps, or channels that cause you to feel this way.

No one is holding a gun to your head making you read people's negative opinions of our new President.

However, keeping to outlets that only speak favorably of the president is a great way to become misinformed.

It's just amazing to me how the same people (I don't mean you, OP - just speaking in general here) who talked shit on our last President are all up in arms about people saying negatives about our new President.

Sucks don't it?
A$A$A
I hear you. There’s only so many times you can beat that drum, and this comes from somebody who has beaten it as hard and loud as anyone on Quora.

So let’s not talk about him. Let’s talk about the new government in office and its plans for America. Let’s pick one issue at random:

An FCC Chief who Opposes Net Neutrality

Uh oh. So, um, the government and Comcast are now in charge of what websites I get to visit? Anything not on the ‘profitable’ or ‘approved’ list gets its bandwidth throttled into nonexistence? Can’t see how that could go wrong.

Oh, all right. I can’t limit myself to one, how about:

HUD suspends FHS mortgage insurance premium cut.

Oh great. If you’re struggling to meet your FHS mortgage, it just got more expensive. Thanks a heap.

Less than week in, and we have less freedom than before and are paying through the nose for the privilege.

Inauguration Day a ‘National Day of Patriotic Devotion’

What the actual fuck? Every year? What if you don’t feel like being patriotically devoted on that day? I mean, it’s still conceivable that a president you don’t like could be inaugurated sometime in the future. How devoted will you feel then?

Excuse me if I don’t turn cartwheels.
A$A$A
When he's out of office. The pain he is already causing — this horrific first week — matters. Your tiredness, frankly, does not. The anguish of the world does not stop for anyone. This is “special snowflake” thinking.

As long as decent people have to endure the larval autocrat, so long will those he offends and hurts spit venom. You can always get off the internet, turn off the TV, and read a book. I'm reading a bunch of Dickens lately. Not a single reference to Trump!
A$A$A
Well, you know, maybe there’s something to this. Half your Facebook feed is full of people who think Trump is a narcissistic, racist, misogynistic, egomaniac 12-year-old spoiled rich kid who likes to grab women by the pussy and scam and cheat honest people out of their money, and they’re not happy that he’s now leading and representing the country they and (in many cases) their ancestors helped to build.

Maybe there’s something to that, y’know? Maybe it deserves a second look. Maybe people are still angry because Trump is double-downing on all his obvious lies and conflicts of interest, because he’s still insulting everyone who dares disagree with him, and because he’s still proposing policies that threaten the very stability of our country and of people’s lives.

Maybe there’s something to all this activism you’re hearing about. The protests that counted in the millions on and after Trump’s inauguration. The states and cities that are declaring themselves “sanctuaries” against immoral and unethical deportation of immigrants who’ve already been cheated by the system.

Maybe what you’re seeing is just a small snapshot in time of what could be one of the biggest revolutions since the 13 Colonies were formed in the first place.

Maybe there’s something to that.

Or maybe we’re just whining because we’ve got nothing better to do and we need someone to direct all our pent-up frustration at. Maybe we’re all just fake news.

I suppose if you wanted to escape all of it, you could sign off of Facebook or unfriend all the people who keep bashing Trump. You could log in to Fox News and Breitbart, where everything is happy all the time. (Oh wait, even Fox called bullshit on the Trump Team the other day, whoops, my bad.) You could pretend that none of it’s happening, none of this exists, none of it matters.

Meanwhile, the rest of us who are actually concerned about the direction this country is going will continue to take things seriously. Your choice as to whether you want to keep up with it or not.
A$A$A
When will all the Trump bashing slow down a bit?

So I am a half hearted Trump supporter, and I am getting REALLY tired of all the anti Trump bashing both in the real world and on the internet. It’s like whatever I scroll throu facebook and Quora, half the content on my feed is Trump bashing. Its really getting annoying.

What you characterize as "Trump bashing," we informed individuals refer to as "truth telling." And it should slow down in a couple of years, after the Republicans lose both houses of congress, and the Talented Mister Trump gets impeached. Meanwhile, you can avoid all of the "Trump bashing" by tuning into Breitbart and Alex Jones.

See also:

David F. Prenatt Jr.'s answer to, “Why are liberals so condescending toward Trump supporters? Do they really feel they are superior?”

David F. Prenatt Jr.'s answer to, “What conflicts of interest would Donald Trump have if elected President?”

David F. Prenatt Jr.'s answer to, “Is the future of the United States uncertain with the election of Trump, and why?”
A$A$A
Get used to it. It’s not going away.

For more than half the country, Trump is someone who is perceived, correctly, not only as not qualified to be president, but unworthy to be president. There is a difference.

In terms of qualifications, his understanding of policy — foreign, economic, financial, defense, trade, fiscal and monetary — appears to be on a fourth grade level — which is to say, he doesn’t understand policy at all. That is frightening for someone who is now the single most powerful person in the world. It also, unfortunately, bodes quite poorly for the future of the country over not only the next four years, but beyond.

If Trump, in his ignorance, undermines NATO while giving a thug like Putin a free pass to pursue his adventurism in Eastern Europe; if moving the American embassy to Jerusalem unleashes a massive, worldwide Muslim backlash; if protectionism undermines the American-led geopolitical trade regime; if irresponsible tax cuts blow out the deficit; or if America surrenders its leadership in combatting global warming, then Americans will be facing the consequences for years after Trump’s impeachment. I know conservatives are found of saying “elections have consequences” (at least when conservatives win — somehow that principle didn’t apply for them to Barack Obama), but these will not be the consequences they had in mind.

Next, sadly, is Trump’s unworthiness to be president. Let’s face it, he is a self-confessed sexual predator and moral reprobate, a deadbeat and a bankrupt, and admitted off-handedly to having committed at least one federal felony by violating the Cuban embargo (good thing the statute of limitations had expired, huh?). I’m sure there are plenty more we don’t know about yet.

So, sorry to say, the Trump bashing will probably only get worse as the ramifications of having elected this person President of the United States starts to sink in. Only soon it won’t just be those of us who voted against him who will be doing the bashing. It will be Republicans, and many of his more lukewarm voters who thought they were voting for him to get good paying blue collar jobs back and the Muslims and Mexicans out. They will soon discover that none of that is going to happen.
A$A$A
I’m afraid Trump bashing will never end. It will definitely lessen when (or more accurately, if) Trump stops saying and doing idiotic and bash-worthy things, but even then, it won’t stop. Just like offensive and derogatory comments about Obama never stopped even though he is considered to be a classy and above-average president.
A$A$A
I’m sorry you are getting tired of listening to negative info about someone you admired enough to vote for them, or at least assessed as the lesser of two evils. I assure you, I am speaking out more about DT’s actions, present and past, than I’m interested in bashing his character flaws. You are tired from two years of unpleasant comments about DT; but from my perspective, I am watching hard won protections for humanity and the planet (that people fought for over the whole half century of my life) disappearing virtually overnight after DT somehow managed to win the electoral college vote despite being nearly 3 million popular votes behind his opponent.

I won’t have another half a century to re-build what he is destroying as we speak, so I don’t have the luxury of remaining silent about what he is doing/ has done. I have to do my duty as a citizen to work against DT’s destructive agenda, so that there is something left for the next generations. And it is not only DT, other GOP are tolerating him as POTUS even though he constantly embarrasses them, because he gives them the chance to push forward their own plans of dismantling our social safety net and environmental protections, and some of them are even more extreme than DT in their plans for rolling us back a half century or more.

DT is not the first person I have encountered who steps on toes by saying hateful things, or to have a 4th grade vocabulary, or to assert that white men are God’s chosen to rule home and nation, or to assert that anything but unfettered capitalism is evil. I have worked my whole life in the male dominated construction industry, and have dealt with disparagement and sexual harassment by continuing to remain professional in my dealings with everyone my job brings me into contact with, and to give them the respect I feel I deserve, even when it is not extended to me. But I refuse to stay silent about incompetence or malfeasance when it might hurt others, and have even quit a job when I was expected to go along with such behavior.

The behavior I find most egregious in DT is none of the salacious allegations that fill the airwaves, but the documented evidence presented in criminal court cases that he eventually settled when he thought he might lose despite the best efforts of his skilled lawyers in defending him. These have to do with how he became an allegedly wealthy man, by unethical and even criminal business dealings in which he took advantage of many of the kinds of people he considers to be his base, and even some of his biggest fans and allies. These cases have convinced me that DT is only concerned with what benefits DT, and will throw anyone else, including coworkers and family, under the bus if he stands to profit by doing so. I fully believed DT when he promised to run the nation the way he ran his businesses; that is what is the most scary thing about him to me. I don’t think any of his supporters, half or even whole hearted, would support him doing to the citizens of this country what he was alleged in court to have done to others in the past if they bothered to educate themselves on all his past business dealings, the way many in NYC who became his unwitting victims have been educated and convinced they can’t vote for him even if he is a hometown boy.

You may have heard of the court case involving Polish undocumented immigrants who tore down the historic old building that used to sit where Trump tower now does. There were about 200 of them brought to the US to do the job by a demolition subcontractor to DT. In court DT claimed he knew nothing of their undocumented status, but further investigation and the court discovery process found DT actually helped to get them visas to the US that did not permit working here. They were contracted to do the work at rates of $4–5/hour, far below minimum wage, much less a living wage in Manhattan, and even so, DT refused to pay the subcontractor the last contractual payment for work done (this appears to be a DT standard operating procedure), so the subcontractor in turn stiffed his employees for the last of their wages. The building being demolished was full of hazardous materials like lead and asbestos, yet the workers were not provided with the legally required safety gear for the task, and I doubt the legally required precautions for encapsulation of the work done to protect the hazardous materials from escaping into the neighborhood. As an architect who has worked on lots of historic preservation jobs, I can tell you that the building owner, DT, had a legal obligation to test for the presence of hazardous materials before beginning the demolition of a building of that age, and if hazards were found, they must be dealt with in compliance with all the regulations intended to protect workers and neighbors from getting sick. The polish workers didn’t know the hazards they were dealing with, were largely unprotected, then cheated out of some of the pittance they were paid, and threatened by DT with deportation if they tried to get justice.

As I said, there are hundreds of settlements DT has made including many cases of businesses or people that contributed to DT’s construction projects getting stiffed out of final payments. I’m not even sure that he budgets for last payments anymore, because he has been so successful at getting away without making them. Partly this is because he has found that if he picks small mom & pop businesses to work on his projects, they are less likely to have heard about his habit of “forgetting” last payments, and are less likely to fight for what is owed them because they can’t afford lawyers and court costs. He will pull the stunt on almost anyone, including professionals like lawyers and “salaried” people who worked on his campaign. About the only ones who don’t get victimized this way are the electricians he hires, because union electricians are required on jobs of the scale that he does, and if his stiffs one electrician firm, the others won’t work on his jobs anymore. Lawyers who stick with him have learned to only work on retainer for him, meaning they make sure they are paid in advance of doing the work.

And then there are the “Trump U” students, who were some of his biggest fans to start with, and thought they were learning his secrets to real estate deals that would bring them wealth. They were strung along with promises of even more “secrets” in each class, some had paid upwards of $30K before getting to the highest levels, where they learned DT’s secrets of watching the obituaries to learn of newly widowed people and watching for property tax lien notices on elderly people, then going to the bank that held the debt to pay off that old person’s property tax debts without their permission, which gives him a lien on the property, such that when the elders die he can file for title because he now has a lien on the property that he won’t accept payment from the heirs for, so he can take their parents’ property from them for far less $ than it is worth. Some students felt cheated by such unethical, but legal, “secrets” costing them so much, Also the personalized mentoring promised by instructors often never materialized, nor were the instructors as qualified as was made out in promotional materials, and DT never showed his face, though “graduates” were photographed with a life-sized cut-out picture of him for those promotional materials. I was not surprised that the first thing the GOP congress tried to do during his administration was to get rid of the office of ethics in government, for DT has never had ethics in business, and that was his path to nominal wealth and likely is his intended path to ruling the world.
A$A$A
Trump’s policies are going to hurt people. It’s inevitable that some people are going to be angry about that and/or try to stop it. The “bashing” you’re witnessing is activism and public outcry, which are part of our political system—they are tools the public can use to make their will known. You’re seeing Democracy in action.

If this is too annoying for you, maybe you’d prefer to live in a country like North Korea. You wouldn’t have to tolerate other opinions there.

So to answer your question: when fewer people find his actions and promises objectionable, then the bashing will slow down.
A$A$A
Never, here is why:

I have a friend who has a small company that makes natural flavor pop sodas. Based on market studies, he could be selling three times as much as he is selling but right now he doesn't want to grow this business because he is busy attending other businesses.

However, businesses are meant to make money, plain and simple. As long as someone is willing to buy their product they are willing to sell it. The same goes for media outlets, left or right.

Even if Trump would start acting more conventional, media outlets would find a way to defend or attack him because that is what sells.

One good way to prove this is:

Turn off your TV

Get a hobby

After a week, you will find out that the world hasn't come to an end but your news related stress levels will plummet. Guaranteed!
A$A$A
The Trump bashing is likely slow down a bit when Trump stops lying, i.e. never.

This guy, according to Politifact lies 76% of the time he speaks. Think about that.

Just today he said that the Media lied about how many people showed up at the inauguration. He estimated 1.5 million people. It’s actually closer to 250,000.

At the top of the news article was a side-by-side comparison picture of Trump’s inauguration and Obama’s inauguration 2009. Courtesy of BBC: Trump inauguration: President disputes crowd photos - BBC News

Trump on the left, Obama on the right.

I’m just saying that if he stops lying, and I’m including all of the random bashing he does on Twitter, then people will have FAR less content to bash this douchebag with. So if you’re sick of it, Tweet our president and ask him to start speaking truth.
A$A$A
The trouble is that Trump is America unleashing the ultimate weapon of mass distraction on the world. He’s a self-generating publicity machine. His “speeches” and interviews are so outrageous that networks deem it newsworthy and entertaining enough to broadcast over and over again. But just hearing his obnoxious voice mouthing such inanity is jarring to the ears. It reminds me of the 80’s stable of snake oil televangelists like Jimmy Swaggart, Pat Robertson and Jim Bakker. My ears and senses couldn’t sustain more than a minute of listening to such bullshit before I had to switch channels. Same with Trump. In spades. Not only that, watching his beak when he talks is very disconcerting. It reminds me of the talking vagina in David Lynch’s version of the Dune movie.
A$A$A
Donald Trump is a minority President. Nearly three million more people voted for HRC than for Donald Trump, mostly because he is so reviled in large populated places like California and New York.

The only way that the bashing dies down is that Trump stops antagonizing the majority of people that voted against him. He regularly makes statements, both on Twitter and in the media, that are specifically inflammatory, and often, untrue. This is to say nothing of the statements made by his advisors who follow his lead.

Trump could accomplish has legislative and executive agenda more smoothly, if he’d make a case to the majority that are rightly suspicious of both his motives, actions, and words. It’s very, very unlikely that will happen.

Keep in mind that protest of a President operating outside the norms is essential. Those people you find annoying are doing a service that history will reward even if it’s painful right now.
A$A$A
If you want the Trump bashing to slow down, I suggest you appeal to the president.

After all, many of the articles are covering the actions of the man. If the man puts out several executive orders everyday, there will be numerous articles about each of the executive orders.

It has been recommended to the president that he slow down by no less than the National Security Council. It’s interesting to note that not soon afterwards, Trump signed another executive order effectively telling most members of NSC not to bother attending meetings except when specifically requested and then placed his alt-right advisor Bannon in charge of the Council.

Any Trump supporter could ask Trump to learn more about American foreign policy, taxation and economics, the government’s healthcare system. A Trump supporter could ask the man to lean on the advise of experts in the field. One could suggest that Trump work with those already in Congress as well as in various government offices.

Of course, it would help if the president did not sign an executive order that might well be unconstitutional with four federal judges ordering that the executive order be halted.

It is also interesting to note that some of the complaining seems to be coming from people who initially supported Trump:

I voted for Donald Trump, and I already regret it

Trump Regrets (@Trump_Regrets) | Twitter

GOP senator: Trump should 'immediately' revise immigration executive order

Even if Trump took the small, tiny step of not posting incendiary comments on Twitter, coverage would decrease significantly. However, Trump seems obsessed with reacting to any news coverage, hence fulfilling his own needs for more news coverage. Trump loves attention, even if its negative.

Please write to your president, whom you say you support. Please ask him to stop being such a jackass. If he should magically morph into a thoughtful, learned, team-playing president, much of the criticism will slow down.
A$A$A
All presidents get bashed to some degree, so Trump bashing will never completely stop. I expect it will diminish substantially when two things happen (if they happen at all). In no particular order, they are as follows.

Trump and his people have to stop the blatant lying. For example, Trump claimed to have received more votes than Hillary Clinton (i.e., won the popular vote), but he didn't. He got about 3 million fewer votes than Clinton. So why would he lie about it, especially when he won what counts—the electoral college vote? Same thing when his new press secretary claimed Trump’s inauguration had attracted the biggest crowds ever for an inauguration. It was obviously, demonstrably untrue, so again, why lie about something that doesn't matter? It just undermines your credibility, something you’ll need when important issues come up.

The other thing Trump has to do is grow a thicker skin. He doesn't have to respond every time someone says something negative about him. Meryl Streep goes on a rant about him at the Golden Globe awards ceremony? It will only be seen by those who watched the broadcast, and mentioned briefly in the entertainment report the next day, then forgotten quickly. But not when Trump responds by whining, not about what Streep said, but about her ability as an actress. It exposes a nothing story into something bigger, something that makes Trump look petty and insecure. He should take the high road and ignore this kind of complaint. Have some grace and humility—in short, act presidential.

Both of these behaviours make Trump more of a target for bashing. If he cleans up his act, the bashing will diminish.
A$A$A
Ever seen what happens when a large fish is bleeding in the water and gets attacked by sharks? More sharks show up as the blood spreads in the water as the first group of sharks feed. In the feeding frenzy, some of the sharks get bit, release more blood in the water and their fellows turn on them which releases more blood, calls more sharks…

Trump and his supporters are not innocent in this. He continues to make inflammatory or patently false statements and form policy that a large number of people disagree with. He will continue being himself, people will continue to react equally vehemently. His supporters will defend Trump/disparage detractors which react in turn.

Rinse and repeat through the end of his term.
A$A$A
It’s not “bashing”; it’s calling out the truth (and not the “alternative” truth). However, the negative press will slow down when Trump stops acting like an insecure, narcissistic bully. He has repeatedly lied about the election and his inauguration. He has taken steps to gut the arts, the ACA, and the environment. If he stops lying, starts acting presidential, and starts being concerned about all the people in the country, he’ll get credit for it.
A$A$A
I really like this question, and my unfortunate answer is, never. I really don’t think the bashing will stop.

The reason is, as a Jersey native, I know The Donald by reputation pretty well. He’s not a good guy, and we’ve made a pretty big mistake electing him.

I really would like to be wrong about this, but consider a couple of things:

Donald tricked NJ into letting him open casinos in Atlantic City, and then trashed the place. His companies borrowed money, paid him as the CEO, and then went bankrupt instead of paying it back.

The President has already signed a sort of silly executive order telling government workers to stop working on the Affordable Care Act. It seems half-baked to me, and I think it will hurt people.

The Donald, and now The President, has said and keeps saying things that make some very racist people bold.

If he stops saying that stuff, I’ll calm down. But I don’t think Americans are allowed to just let this stuff pass.

I don’t think everyone who voted for the President is a bad person, but I do honestly think the President is a bad person.

That’s why I don’t think the bashing is likely to stop.
A$A$A
In a healthy democracy any leader is subject to criticism (hopefully healthy) from the media and the public. Whether it is Trump, Obama, either Clinton, either George Bush, etc. or our own leaders Malcolm Turnbull, Tony Abbott, Kevin Rudd, Julia Gillard, etc. politicians can be (and should be) criticised if they state something unworkable, indefensible, reprehensible, or just plain silly.

It is then up to the discretion of the viewer, listener or reader (depending on the media) to analyse whether the criticism is partially or totally correct. Even the best leaders say stupid things.

Our opposition leader put his foot in it several years back.

"Bill Shorten, the Australian workplace relations minister, was asked by Sky News Australia whether he felt the parliamentary speaker, Peter Slipper, should be allowed to go back to his job after being accused of sexual harassment and misuse of funds.

Aware Gillard was abroad, but unaware of what she'd said on the matter, Shorten replied: "I haven't seen what she's said, but let me say I support what it is she said." Pressed by an astonished presenter to confirm he backed his boss even though he didn't know what she'd said, he nodded: "I support what she said ... My view is what the prime minister's view is."

Even as a Labor supporter (most of the time) I thought that was dumb. He should have said that this is a decision to be made by the Prime Minister or Cabinet, and that it was not appropriate to comment until this decision was made.

Trump has said many stupid things, more than average (but that is just my opinion) but I (and a large swathe of the media) thought Hillary Clinton might be the lesser of two evils (neither good, it was a pick to chose between maybe corrupt (Clintion) vs highly erratic (Trump).

All said, USA got the leader of their choice, so for 4 years they can live with the consequences. Hopefully he does not keep all his more extreme promises and proves to be better than some feared. and does not mess it up to badly for the rest of the world.

As I live in the rest of the world, I hope we can make Australia great again.
A$A$A
Is it bashing to expose someone for being a fraud, for being a pathological liar?

It would probably stop, the minute he started consistently telling the truth. He could start by admitting that he is over his head, does not have a clue about government, law, economics, policy, or public administration and get rid of at least half his cabinet and start over, using the advice of centrist experts of either party. It would also help if he stopped reacting like an eight-year-old and tweeting in anger at 3 AM, for each time someone dares to correct him, or even disagree with him.
A$A$A
You’re “tired” of the Trump bashing?

Well, I guess we should apologize, except that his actions now have serious and lasting impact upon us all.

Many of your fellow Americans are worried about their futures.

Many others are flat out terrified.

Meanwhile, today (6 Feb 2017):

President Trump is now speculating that the media is covering up terrorist attacks

Many of us see this as evidence of a seriously unstable person in a position of tremendous influence and power.

We aren’t “bashing” him.

We are worried … for ourselves … for our country … for the world!
A$A$A
Either avoid watching the news, re-evaluate your support for him or get some thicker skin. As long as people care about something they will talk or bash it until it complies, is impeached, prevails and or thank the heavens their term limit is up.

I’d recommend re-evaluating your support, possibly not only for him but your party most likely as well. But staying on subject lets see what he did today that was bash worthy:

Goes to CIA to mend fences by blaming the rift between him and the intelligence community as the fault of the crooked media. Trump compares intelligence report to 'Nazi Germany’, calls Buzzfeed 'garbage'. This was a bold look right in your face lie.

While trying to mend fences but lying right to their faces. Tells them with his classic: “But, I want to say that there is nobody that feels stronger about the Intelligence Community and the CIA than Donald Trump. [applause]. There’s Nobody. Nobody.” When he says this with conviction some people believe him. Its truly remarkable.

Says his crowd from his inauguration were 1 million to 1.5 million and again the crooked media put up a fake picture of a field. Why is he talking about this when he’s there to mend fences with the CIA? Why send out Spicer to tell us the inauguration crowds were the “biggest” ever?

I’d suggest anybody that admires this man to do some research on him or ask a New Yorker about him.
A$A$A
The bashing will stop when Trump starts acting responsible, as a actual president.

Unfortunately, he’s still behaving like a little child at the moment.  I mean… really, trying to convince the world that his inauguration had the biggest crowd ever, even though it is completely obvious to any sane person, that it had not?  And then blaming the media for lying honest about it?

It’s incredible, but every single day he does something insanely stupid.  Obviously, people jump on that.
A$A$A
The bashing will stop when Trump starts acting like a president who knows how to run a country, and stops acting like an ill-mannered child throwing a tantrum.

The United States is not a business, and it can’t be run like one. When you don’t understand how your decisions affect the whole country, you cause people to judge you as someone who is not capable of doing the job you were elected to do.

This country is not some dingy that can turn on a dime. Pardon the cliche, but the United States is like The Queen Mary, and it takes a lot of time for the country to change course. Case in point is his immigration executive order. Republican farmers are beginning to understand the dire consequences that will happen if there are no pickers to bring in the crops.

This quote from the Jeff Marchhini article below sums it up for me and I think for a lot of Americans.

“As for his promises about cracking down on illegal immigrants, many assumed Mr. Trump’s pledges were mostly just talk.”

He’s a showman, and everyone heard what they wanted to hear while disregarding the part that would affect them. They didn’t believe that he’d do it. This is going to be his legacy. He did the things he said he would do, and he did so without the knowledge that you can’t say, “You’re fired” to so-called judges.

He’s tearing apart the few regulations that were put in place to protect consumers from another repeat of 2007. His foreign policy is frightening. He is not qualified to do his job. He is surrounded by rumors about collusion with the Russians.

If he ever slows down and starts to think things through, the bashers might move off, but I doubt it. As a half-hearted Trump supporter, I wonder if you ever stopped bashing Obama when he was in office.

It’s politics, and politics is a greater pastime than baseball to most Americans.

Jeff Marchini and others in the Central Valley here bet their farms on the election of Donald J. Trump. His message of reducing regulations and taxes appealed to this Republican stronghold, one of Mr. Trump’s strongest bases of support in the state.

As for his promises about cracking down on illegal immigrants, many assumed Mr. Trump’s pledges were mostly just talk. But two weeks into his administration, Mr. Trump has signed executive orders that have upended the country’s immigration laws. Now farmers here are deeply alarmed about what the new policies could mean for their workers, most of whom are unauthorized, and the businesses that depend on them.

Workers Rifle Through Muddy Leaves to find Purple Heads of Radicchio

One of the great ironies in the election of Donald Trump as the next president of the United States is that the agricultural heartland of the country voted overwhelmingly for a candidate who pledged to deport millions of undocumented workers, a move that would undermine the agricultural workforce and ripple out in the food economy in unforeseen, but likely negative, ways.

Farm workers on Edge After Trump Elected President

Others in California's farming industry say Trump's tough campaign talk targeting immigrants in the country illegally — including a vast number of farm workers — spurred them into action, too.

They're calling on congressional representatives to educate the president-elect on the workforce it takes to feed the country, and they're assuring workers they'll protect them.

Trump's deportation vow spurs California farmers into action

Trump is throwing huge rocks in the pond with no sense of the ripples they are causing.
A$A$A
Well, the trump bashing will end when he stops doing things that are worthy of criticism

I praise him where he should be praised

and I oppose him where he should be opposed.

I don't give a toss about the inauguration crowds. I do give a toss about “"alternative facts”

Trumps team deserves to be lambasted for blatabtly lying to the public

I acthally congratulated him on tearing up the TPP. I'm glad it's gone.

Pulling out of the Paris agreement though? It's absolutely shameful. Despicable.

Ill bash him when he deserves bashing

If you want less trump bashing have him do less awful things
A$A$A
When Trump supporters act like proper citizens and get their boy in line - i.e., require him to act like a responsible president.

When you all flood his office with calls and letters, demanding that he and his surrogates stop lying.

When you all demand he act presidential and stop harassing/stonewalling the media & anyone who disagrees with him.

When you demand he release his tax returns and completely sever ties to his businesses to the satisfaction of bipartisan legal and ethical experts.

When you demand he stop tweeting, as his reliance on this tool puts our country at risk in more ways than one.

When you demand his cabinet to be filled with (ideally a diverse group of) people who actually have the knowledge and experience to do the job, and who aren’t ethically or financially compromised.

When you demand he rule like a democratic and transparent servant of the people, rather than a corrupt autocrat who promotes his family members, only hires loyalists, and punishes/silences those who do not fall in line.

When you demand he do whatever is necessary, such as giving primetime speeches and meeting with liberal minority and female leaders, to atone for his atrocious behavior and remarks during the campaign that has led to millions of his citizens living in fear for their rights and basic safety.

When you demand he publicly and clearly separate himself from white nationalists and racists.

When you demand that he work to actually solve problems, rather than sticking to his flawed ideas of building walls, blocking Muslims, and promoting torture — policies that excite his base but make problems worse and violate human rights.

When you demand that he lead like a moderate leader who lost the popular vote by almost 3 million votes rather than a hard right politician—i.e., work across the aisle, preserve aspects of our social safety net and other popular Obama policies, preserve arts & science funding, nominate a moderate to the Supreme Court.

When you demand that the president, his spokespeople, your Republican Congresspeople, and your Fox News have a strict adherence to the facts - not “alternative facts” and spin, but actual, verifiable facts. When you demand that these people and entities always take into account how the rest of us see the world.

When you demand he act on behalf of the poor and middle class, rather than repeating the fallacy of trickle-down economics that primarily benefits the rich.

When you demand that the president protect the basic survival needs of our citizens and our planet through supporting health care coverage, climate change science, public education, Native American rights, and so on.

When you demand that women’s rights and health care be a priority, including recognizing the enormous good Planned Parenthood does that has nothing to do with abortion.

When you demand that he respect Roe v. Wade as a fundamental right of American women.

When you demand that he build a government that honors the separation of church and state in all areas, including health care and education.

When you demand he honor our commitments to our allies.

When you demand he act like a responsible leader who will not lead us into another nuclear arms race or war.

When you demand a full investigation into any collusion between Putin and Trump’s campaign.

When you take to the streets and march with us, even if you don’t agree with every single thing we stand for.

**************************************************************************************

You know what? There’s too many things to write.

So I guess the answer is this: Unless millions of his own supporters rise up and get this president to act like one, our criticism won’t slow down.

You made a bad choice.

You can help us fix it, or prepare to spend the next 4 years being annoyed on the sidelines.
A$A$A
Q: (former details) So I am a half hearted Trump supporter, and I am getting REALLY tired of all the anti Trump bashing both in the real world and on the internet. It’s like whatever I scroll through facebook and Quora, half the content on my feed is Trump bashing. Its really getting annoying.

A: Well, a majority of voters voted against him, and he took office anyway. What did you expect, flowers?

Something tells me that if it is getting annoying, it’s having the desired effect.
A$A$A
I hate to have to tell you but you've only begun to be annoyed. If you think it's bad now it's certainly not going to get better as he carries out his objectives. I always get this vibe from Republicans that they just assume what ever it is that is being discussed that they are right and that regardless of what we might say in opposition deep down we know they're right too. Their reality is the one true reality. Of course everyone thinks they are right but the Republicans are unique it this shared objective reality vibe. It's very condescending and its not true. Your being sick of Trump bashing is a version of this phenomenon. Why on earth would you expect the bashing to subside? Obviously you aren't aware of what has really happened here. All of us regardless of our personal philosophy owe it to the communities we are part of to listen to what the other side is saying and to give them the benefit of the doubt unless we can offer a sound fact based counter to their arguments. That is how civilizations function when they function. That is how inteligent civilized people work through problems. It requires that you abandon ideas that don't past muster regardless of the side you are on. Without this every issue creates a deadlock and all of us are stuck and that is what has happened here and we can not afford to let it just stand. The stakes are just too high. I have to question the seriousness of anyone who admits the support Trump in any way whatsoever. Have you watched and heard the same things over his disgraceful campaigns? What would make an informed, grown adult risk the future of this country on such an unpredictable commodity when the opponent offered a continuation of what was undeniably a successful preceeding administration that by just about every metric is moving in the right direction? Not fast enough for you? Regardless of your reason for your dissatisfaction with Obama how do you justify destroying all of the good work that has been done? Do you think things will really better when you are voicing support for such destruction and disruption? This is the way a spoiled child acts when they can't get their way and now we’re stuck with a very spoiled child in the white house and he's not the choice of the majority. I ask you how you would feel if we had elected a reprehensible narcissist that arrgantly talked about distroying the country that the majority didn't want into office. Given that your party obstructed a moderate intelligent cool headed president who you could have worked with easily if you would have tried - no drama Obama, given the way you treated someone who earned and deserved the job I shutter to think how you would be responding to a Democrat version of Trump. Pretty sure it would be orders of magnitude worse than what you're complaining about. I can only speak for myself but i think i feel like many of us and that is i feel its my civic duty to stand guard over our cherished ideals and that which we’ve built and to keep as much of our humanity as is possible. That doesnt invove sitting quietly on the sidelines. The man is a menace and the sooner you and people like you realize the horrible danger you've put us all in the better. Sorry if our standing for what is right annoys you. Perhaps you can use your annoyance as guage of the negative emotions you've saddled the majority of your fellow citizens with.
A$A$A
I will stop bashing him when he adopts a policy of transparency in everything he and his administration does. He mus stop bashing the press and accusing them of being fake. He must stop telling people to only listen to him and the few press outlets that agree with him. He must start truthfully answering questions from all press outlets and not deflecting away from their valid questions. Even if he doesn’t think they are valid questions, that is not for him to judge. It is his job to answer the questions truthfully. He must stop blaming everyone else for the falsehoods he tells and take responsibility for whatever happens in his administration. He must accept that Presidents are made fun of, ridiculed and held to high standards of transparency and truth, and stop bashing anyone who utilizes these strategies because they are normal and expected. He must accept that there really are questions raised by our own intelligence agencies regarding Russian involvement in the election and just allow an independent investigation. He needs to release his tax returns and business details so that independent auditors can determine if there are conflicts of interest that may influence decisions he will be making.

Once he adopts a these policies of truth and transparency I will stop bashing him. I will continue to protest against specific policies that I feel are misguided on a case by case basis, but will stop bashing him personally.
A$A$A
When will the Muslim bashing, disabled-bashing, woman-bashing, Hispanic-bashing and gay-bashing slow down a bit?

The election of now-President Trump is not an event which is now ‘in the past’. Rather, it has real consequences which we are all suffering now, and will continue to suffer at least until January 20th 2021. It follows, in my view that liberals cannot be expected to get over it straight away, but are entitled to continue restating their grievances so long as Trump is in power.

Furthermore, it would be wrong to say that President Trump has been singled out for harassment by the press of by Congress. Recall how President Obama was constantly criticised over Obamacare, or how Secretary Clinton was hounded over Benghazi and her email scandal. This was all perfectly proper criticism of powerful individuals who need to be constantly kept in check by the press and well as the American public. And now that Trump has chosen to take on the presidency, he has also by implication opened himself up to be criticised. If he didn’t want that to happen then he should have remained a businessman and a private citizen.
A$A$A
I understand what you're saying completely, but the honest truth is NEVER. For 8 years straight non Obama supporters did nothing but bash Obama. This is only different in the sense that Trump has repeatedly proved how ignorant and disgusting he is.

Sorry to literally do exactly what you wish would stop, but I'd say about a third of people bashing him are doing it just to do it, another third are bashing him because he truly is just an ignorant SOB, and the last third of the people bashing him are genuinely scared. He instills ignorance, hatred, and prejudice in many (not all, but many) of his whole hearted supporters and the people who are the center of that ignorance, hate, and prejudice are terrified.

I know it's annoying, but sometimes you have to look at things from our perspective.
A$A$A
Every American president faces an avalanche of criticism, some of it warranted, some of it made up. Barack Obama was President of the United States for eight years and the bashing of him didn’t slow down one bit, even after winning two elections with a majority of the popular vote. George W Bush was bashed from his first day in office for winning an Electoral College victory but a popular vote loss of 500,000 votes. He was re-elected a bit more decisively, but that didn’t stop the bashing. The only let up was after the attacks of September 11th, but that went away by the start of the Iraq War. Bill Clinton was assailed by his opposition for only winning 46% of the vote in a three way election in 1992. He won re-election with almost just shy of 50% of the vote, and they tried to impeach him in his second term. George H.W. Bush was elected decisively in 1988 and was bashed endlessly from both parties, with a brief reprieve during the 1991 Gulf War. Ronald Reagan called the White House the “crown jewel of the federal penitentiary system…” and I don’t think he was too far off the mark. Americans love to hate on their presidents. If you’re hoping for a slow-down, I don’t think you know Americans very well.
A$A$A
I think you are all in as a Trump supporter, btw….Ive learned how to spot you from miles away….but to answer your question….. he can subside whenever he chooses….he is sending his press secretary to scold us as if we color crayoned on the White House walls…over attendance…..I mean really? Think of the racist stuff said about Obama and his family every day for 8+ years….you might hate his guts but he never threw a temper tantrum like this one does…I hardly think protesting him - a right we have- is bashing him.

If he cant handle it, why did he do this?

What did he expect?

What's he going to do in a real crisis?

Doesn't that unnerve you a little bit?
A$A$A
Maybe 10 years from now. The dude has already made a laughing stock of himself by making such a big stink about his low inauguration attendance. He tried to bully the press into reporting that the attendance was much higher than it really was. This man is just unable to stick to facts. And he can never just smartly drop a bungled SNAFU like that, he prefers to drag it on for weeks by continuing to dispute it.

I really think he’ll be trying to revise reality throughout his entire presidency. And the press and the public should not just cut him a break. He just needs to grow up and wear some big boy pants now.
A$A$A
When Trump stops bashing people. He bashed the Hamilton cast. He bashed the media over the size of his crowd. He bashed over SNL. He bashed Boeing because the CEO made a comment about him the day before.

He’s our President, right? He’s our role model. He shows us how to act. So we’re acting just like him.
A$A$A
If I were one of his advisors my advice would be to BE QUIET for a while. Talk less. Don’t tweet. Focus on doing things and letting those actions speak for themselves, not talking, which is what he himself accuses politicians of.

If he stayed quiet, was the bigger man, let things roll off his back for a while, then there would be less “bashing.”
A$A$A
Were you also tired of the over-the-top Obama bashing that went on for 8 years? Or did you miss the “ape in office” memes? Did you complain publicly as you are doing now? Were you tired of the obstructionist Congress that refused to cooperate with any and every single thing Obama tried to do? Were you disgusted by them not doing their jobs?

This is the way of the world now: I think you are going to have to get used to President bashing - we did. Republicans bashed and resisted absolutely everything for 8 years - and they taught us well. Now, we WILL resist!
A$A$A
It’s sort of interesting watching Republicans. For 8 years, the attacks on Obama never let up, yet I don’t recall any Republicans crying about how mean it was to criticize the President. For 8 years Republicans treated us with such thoughtful criticisms along the lines of “Barack HUSSEIN Obama is a secret MUSLIM socialist KENYAN.” But since he was a Democrat, you didn’t give a shit, right? Hell, you were probably the one shit posting it on Facebook.

Trump HIMSELF launched the birther movement by sending in private investigators to Hawaii to “investigate” the birth certificate. He said “you’re never going to believe what we’re finding out.” Funny how he never actually told us what he found out. And now, this SAME GUY is president for merely a month, and you’re ALREADY crying about the “constant attacks” on the President. I think it’s going to be a long 4 years for you.

To me this speaks of “Republican Fragility” where even the slightest amount of critical pressure applied towards Trump becomes emotionally unbearable for you, yet for 8 years, every single day, you hurled vile, racist, vicious, ad hominem attacks against the first black president without even a second thought.

The social scientists are still out, but If I had to predict a hypothesis, it would be because the average Republican is megalomaniacal narcissist who can’t believe there is a world out there that doesn’t revolve around himself. He doesn’t feel the pain his slurs cause other people, and yet interprets even the most genteel of legitimate criticism of Republicans as “attacks.”

You can say “G, I don’t think we should have paid Russian spies working at the highest levels of the United States government” and they freak out in a way as if you said “I don’t think the first black president of the US is legitimate because his blackness means he’s not American.” Which is a sentiment the current President actually said.
A$A$A
The problem is that this bashing isn’t unfounded. The reasons go beyond party politics and people protest against him is not unwarranted. He has managed to just about piss off as many people as you can think of. it transcends liberal vs conservative politics. Liberals don’t like him because of his aggressive policies and roll backs on programs that they like and conservatives don’t like him because he is a threat to the legitimacy of the power that they hold in Congress. It’s been five days in and already Trump has stated that he approves of torture, something the US constitution bans, and has focused on things that don’t matter like the popular vote in this past election. Right now it appears that as long as he isn’t leading like a leader, this bashing will only continue. If it bothers you that is the baggage that comes with being a Trump supporter and it is part of what we have elected into our politics sadly. The same goes for Clinton supporters. The baggage they picked up by supporting her was listening for over a year about her email usage while Secretary of State. We all accept the baggage that comes with our candidate of choice, maybe it shouldn’t bother you that people are speaking out against him. Just some friendly advice.
A$A$A
I am quite interestedly looking at this entire development . I think it is that inflection point in history when we indeed needed a leader who would think of making America great again! What is bad in it if a leader is thinking of regaining the lost glory to his country. US was built under NDP and since then all it has got are patch repair works. Its infrastructure is ageing! All other countries are getting richer either by working in / for USA or by living off its largesse.

Trump bashing will stop if for God sake Trump starts speaking less and surely tweeting lesser! Hopefully as President, he will accept to be guided by his media team to do all this.

Secondly, when he starts cutting down all the unworthy aides that US pays to rogue countries.

Lastly, he starts renewing the US infrastructure.

USA will lead the manufacturing sector in the emerging era of artificial intelligence . This factory of the future is not China and India and Africa, it is USA. Thank God for giving it a President who is thinking for his country and doesn't want to pretend that being US President means being responsible for the entire world! Often to the dereliction of the responsibilities towards his country and his people.
A$A$A
I'm really hoping it slows down when he's impeached by the House of Representatives and convicted by the Senate.

After that occurs, I would not want to see him get any attention whatsoever, neither good nor bad. So if trump bashing slows down then, I'm fine with that.

For donald trump, having the world ignore him would be an agonizing punishment, much worse than losing the presidency.
A$A$A
DONALD TRUMP is really trump card of USA because in the history of USA ,or in future of USA they never expected a president like TRUMP because this man beaten a lot of controversies and the challenges that TRUMP faced during his campaign are long lasting.

TRUMP ‘s oration are rhetoric and many sexual accuses also imposed on him ,and before two weeks of American presidential elections HILARY CLINTON had a very strong side but results are….

After winning the elections DONALD TRUMP ,as he promised Americans for a protectionist market and opportunities for them must be accelerated .After taking oath as a president TRUMP instantly cancelled some of bills and policies passed by his predecessor BARACK OBAMA and also put a strict view towards China…

So TRUMP is taking some surprising decisions and only looking forward for USA ‘s supremacy ,this leads to a world wide bashing for DONALD TRUMP and after two or three months when things become normal and TRUMP’s ego is little bit lowered then he may become a world class leader..
A$A$A
As a half-hearted supporter you seem to be missing something. Almost every time Trump tweets something it is either highly insulting to someone, racist or a downright lie. He can't even get his act together to tell the truth about how many turned up to his inauguration. The right answer is not the most people who have ever watched an inauguration ever, and threatening the press when they don't say it's true is downright scary.

When he learns some manners and, to tell the truth, then he will be acting like a president. Then and only then will people stop correcting his lies. Then and only then will people in your view stop Trump bashing.
A$A$A
I am somewhat of the similar kind. I am not a die-hard supporter, but definitely liberal media has gone insane. I see the same non-sense. I don’t think it will stop and it will never end, unless they go out of business soon. CNN, the ultimate fake news site, has shown some signs. It is just a matter of time sites like MNSBC will bite the dust. The media is doing something wrong here. They think common man in America is a fool and they can be easily fooled, but their propaganda is clearly failing. Trump may not be the right person, yet he made it clear that he will dismantle the propaganda in American estbalishment. It is not going to be a easy battle. If he has to win, he should be him and that is the problem for the media. They can’t win him like Mitt Romney or Mccain. He is punching them right in their nuts, and they can’t take it anymore.

Besides, you can also see a lot of liberal lunatics defending their hypocrisy. They are right in calling out the right wing nutbags did call Obama by names. But liberal lunatics are no different from those people. They went on ranting Bush cheated the elections for 16 years; now, they have started the same here. I guess liberals’ strategy is simple: if you win the elections, keep the mouth the shut; if not, rant like a raving lunatic. When I see their comments or arguments, it sounds like total BS that you can even smell it!

But take lets take a time travel to 2020. Trump will run again and DNC nominee would be someone like Cory or Tim Kaine type traditional guy. Liberal media would make fake polls claiming Trump would lose by 20 points or 30 points with zero probability of winning. But reality will show its face again like Nov. 8th and they will blame everything from the aliens to Russians. Nevertheless, I am not sure there will be even people watching their Nazi style propaganda on 2020!
A$A$A
Funnily enough, eight years ago I asked myself a similar question: “when will all the Obama-bashing stop?”

If conservatives can protest and whine about Obama for eight years, especially when he was making great strides in terms of social progression and economic stability, then my answer to your question is “until Trump leaves office.”
A$A$A
Given how dtrump is behaving it is only going to get worse so I suggest you pull the covers over your head for at least the next 2 years.

dtrump has already

1:  pushed forward on the oil pipeline going through sacred lands and endangering water supplies

2: brought back the regulation on funding for women’s health care, the gag rule, which endangers women’s lives world wide.

3: forbidden any government agency from releasing scientific information

4: set in a hiring freeze which was part of what started the last recession - start preparing for the next one

5: started an executive order to roll back the ACA which means that insurance companies can go back to denying services; can cut off your insurance when they want even if you are sick; keeps you from insuring your children if they are 18 and older; and a great many other things that will hurt millions of people.

6: took away the reduction in mortgage rates so that the middle class  first time home buyers can buy homes

7: will now not make public his tax returns which he promised to do if he won the presidency

8: backed out of the TTP which will give China a big advantage

9: plans to quit the United Nations which has kept us at world peace since WWII and that will now put China and Russia in charge of the United Nations.

Much to follow.
A$A$A
Congratulations! At least you have half-a-heart! Most Chump supporters don’t have Any heart… and even less brain! Sorry… just bashing.

I wonder if any of the nearly 10 years of Obama-bashing irked you any. I would say that, while I didn’t entirely agree with the 20% of Obama-bashing that was legitimate, at least it was based on reality. The remaining 80% got pretty old, pretty quick- so I feel your pain, brother.

I suppose you were never moved to action for the nine full years of round-the-clock pseudo-bitching about Senator and Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton- even though every sin and law for which they pretended to convict her was proven to hold no water… to be Red Herrings …multiple times. Still, we thought you would see beyond the bullshit that is the republican megaphone I call, “Fox Spews”. The Bullshit Brigade whose numbers include such Dung-Balls as Mush Bimbaugh, Ann Colder-andcolder-andcolder-andcolder, Sham Hannity, Michelle Malcontent, DumbOld Chump and all the rest, kept you Blinded-By-The-Right. Yet, we endured the bashing; night and day; day and night; week by week; month by month; Year… …By… …Year… Over-and-over-and-over-and-over. …and over….

Soooo… You’re getting tired of the Chump bashing! Try to get past it and focus on the Reason for the bashing. You’ll be less annoyed. If you can’t, go get yourself a good supply of crying towels. The bashing of which you whine will not stop in four years! Remember: In America, when you’re an Ass, you’re going to be the butt of jokes (the best form of bashing). You helped pour the biggest Ass possible into the White house. Chump bashing will turn out to be the least of your troubles. …and keep those towels handy- Two weeks in and the egg is already starting to form on your face.

With love,

The Bash-ist
A$A$A
Sorry buddy, but there are a few reasons for that not related to people hating Trump. The problem is, there is always something new. Literally every few days there is something new that he says or does that gets people angry.

First, a lot of his choices are seen extremely negative. Remember the calls to give Trump a chance? Well, his first test would be selecting his cabinet, and many people - mostly, but not only, on the left - were pretty damn appalled. We are not talking about people who have different political preferences, but people who are seen as simply not fit for their positions.

Then he starts throwing executive orders that directly go against issues that many liberals - and others - feel very strongly about. Remember how Obama was bashed whenever something CLOSE to gun control came around? I was following, say, yahoo comments in 2009 and people were talking about concentration camps. So when Trump comes around and talks a fair bit more aggressively, it tends to create a strong reaction as well.

Finally, usually every scandal winds down eventually, but with Trump, there is never enough time for things to cool down and he himself keeps it up. He takes umbrage at pretty much everything.

Look, I have seen people sad, frustrated and angry in 2004. Let me assure you, a lot of people back there were not really keen on George Bush Jr. as president, yet he could strike a fairly conciliatory tone and keep everything in good taste - good enough for things to wind down reasonably fast.
A$A$A
I may or may not speak for others, but I will stop my constant attacks on Donald Trump when the son-of-a-bitch is no longer a threat to my country and our way of life, where fairness, truth, and reasonable compromise mean something, the strong do not victimize the weak, and the president was someone worth looking up to. Until then, I will have at him with all of my little bit of strength, and I expect there are plenty of others who feel the same way—a majority, in fact, who will sweep the capitol clean of the vermin he has brought with him.
A$A$A
Karma. What you fail to mention is that the other half is Trump doing the bashing himself. He spent a year and a half bashing virtually everyone and everything we believe in and hasn’t stopped yet. We should all worry more about the bashing Trump is doing and less about the trashing he is (deservedly) getting. What goes around, comes around.
A$A$A
Telling the truth about Trump isn’t bashing. You shouldn’t even show half-hearted support to a thin-skinned, compulsively-lying, narcissist who is totally unqualified to be President.

More and more people will turn against Trump and his anti-reality approach to the Presidency. You can’t call blatant lies “alternative-facts” and not have every responsible American call out the lying. If telling the truth about Trump bother you, maybe you have authoritarian tendencies, so want to fall in line for a destructive demagogue.
A$A$A
Assuming this is not a troll question, if you you’re looking for people who share your ideas, there are many sites in which you can have an intelligent conversation with pro-Trumpers and conservatives. And, you should reasses your feed on Facebook. My facebook is filled with overwhelming support for Trump from all types of different groups and people. Being pro-Trump is an extremely positive experience on my page.

However, you must understand you have come to the wrong site for this. Anything Pro-Trump will be an uphill battle on Quora. Being pro-Trump means you will get troll questions meant as harrassment in your questions feed. And your ideas will be met with a lot of anger and subtle hostility. Quora is very liberal in US standards, sort of like the Portlandia of sites. If it weren’t, the liberals would probably leave and find or build sites that reflect their interests more. When you have a chance, research very well written, sharp conservative ideas on Quora. The upvotes are fractions of less insightful liberal answers you’ve heard many times over. Just a warning. Being conservative on Quora is not about finding like minded individuals.
A$A$A
Never, the Democrats have painted him as a demon from hell and in order to regain power will continue to do so, in my opinion.

The Democrats don’t care at all what their continuing bombardment and deep abiding hatred of Trump is doing to the nation. They only care about regaining power.

One person who worked closely with Obama in the White House suggest a military coup to get rid of Republicans. Rosa Brooks, Obama Pentagon official, says anti-Trump military coup possible

The Democrats can not tolerate anyone who holds a political opinion that is different from theirs. They have and will continue to bully through beating people, pepper spraying people, slapping people, socially humiliating people because they think the people have a different political idea than they do.

That is the bullying tactic that has been used post election, constant non-stop bullying by Hollywood, the mainstream media, and the entire elite class; the people who feel they deserve to run the world and have superior ideas and political thoughts to the rest of the peons in the US.

The Democrats will do whatever it takes to destroy Trump and the Republicans, whatever in my opinion, even if it means a total and complete annihilation of Democracy through coup. I think they have made that quite clear in their refusal to approve anyone that Trump nominates for any position, and they have said they will continue to block anything and everything Trump proposes regardless of what it is.
A$A$A
Perhaps when he stops bashing half the country it just might let up.

Perhaps if and or when he stops threatening the lives of twenty to thirty million people, it just might let up.

Perhaps when he stops lying about bringing those jobs back to America, it just might let up. A very good place for him to start with this would be to start making HIS campaign swag in this country and also his clothing and home goods, lines as well. Those items are all manufactured OUT of this country, a very good reason to bash him I would say.

Perhaps when he hires people that are qualified for the high level cabinet positions and not people that only wish to help them selves and him, fatten their personal bank accounts, it just might let up. These are positions that are at a level equal to or above that of CEO of very large corporations, they should not go to people that have never held a job or people that have never held an administrative position. They are in charge of making policy for millions of people and handling billions of dollars, that is not something to be left to someone that does not qualify in that arena as a dilettante.

Perhaps when he starts treating our previous President with respect, it just might let up. It is one thing for citizens to voice their negative opinions of an elected official or president, as is their right. It is another thing all together when a president continously and publically bashes a past President and the lifesaving legislation that he passed. NEVER, have we heard such disrespectful language coming from a president. There is not one thing that the ACA has done to damage this country, except for the fact that the insurance companies are now required by law to do what insurance should do and that is pay out on the claims that they are insured to pay on, which then saves lives.

That does not account for all the other people he publically speaks disrespectfully of and to.

Perhaps when he stops giving our NATIONAL PARKS to oil, gas and mining companies to tear up and destroy, it just might let up. They were made into NATIONAL PARKS for a reason, number one being PRESERVATION.

Perhaps when he stops allowing oil and gas companies to have pipe lines across our country, it just might let up.

Perhaps when he stop thinking of himself and lying to us all the time, it just might let up.

This is just a small sampling of the reasons why I think he is being bashed and I refuse to listen to any thing about him on TV or radio, so I am certain there are many more reasons to bash him.
A$A$A
>When will all the President Trump bashing slow down a bit?

When he resigns, is impeached, or is removed from office under Article 25 of the Constitution.

Keith Olbermann - Here are Donald J. Trump's 50 most...

>Its really getting annoying.

Perhaps you could move to Mars. Perhaps you could take Trump with you!
A$A$A
Of course this kind of thing is based on what both “sides” feel about what is going on. On the one hand you have the President who has his own way of doing things and there is no sign of that changing. On the other side you have many who feel that the behavior he displays is unacceptable to them.

Personally I would predict that you are going to see this for the entire time Trump is President. This is different then anything America has seen before. Yes people have always disagreed on issues and policies, but what you are seeing here is more of a protest on the man himself. I believe this is because he uses Twitter to bully and distract, because he lies to the American public over really stupid stuff (which of course means what happens when it really matters) and because he changes the story (sometime in the same sentence) to suit his personal agenda. He is the President. This is not acceptable and never will be. Thus since I don’t see him changing, you will be seeing this for some time.

While I feel for you being tired of all of this bashing, I would counter that by saying I think we are lucky that so many care about the welfare of this country. We can not accept the President behavior as normal. He is not above the law. He has to stop making up stuff. There is a growing feeling that the man is not well. I feel for him if that is the case, but if it is we need to do something and not just lie down and get run over.

The day you don’t see people protesting this kind of thing is when I would be really worried.
A$A$A
In four years time, when Trump is tossed out of office. Sooner if he is impeached.

Actually the bashing will continue as he will be rightfully blamed for the harm he caused. It may take years to repair the damage. Just as I still bash Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush for the harm they caused (and are causing) to America, I will bash Trump when necessary.

Conservatives elected a bad man to office. This was clearly, beyond a reasonable doubt, thoroughly known at the time of the election. But since he is now here, we have to deal with him. He will be watched and judged accordingly. His feet will be held to the fire and I will call a spade a spade.
A$A$A
Oh, I expect that the bashing that Obama received during his terms will look like a fart in a windstorm compared to Trump’s term(s?).

Regardless of his professed political ideology of the moment, Trump is a buffoon, who is also full of crap. He was made by the gods for the comedians and pundits and just general smart asses of the world.

When we add in all the kookiest SJWs, activists, conspiracy theorists, world uniters, and people with discernment…well, let’s just say that I expect a golden age of crap slinging to happen during Trump’s occupation of the White house.
A$A$A
Half is about right as he was voted for by less than half of the country.

It might slow down if he starts acting like a real president for ALL of the people, not just his supporters. Also when he stops acting like a dictator. Executive orders are not the primary way to operate, rather you use them when you cannot gain concensus (like when republicans said they would not agree to anything Obama did, even if it was their original idea). Trump makes no attempt to even include republican controlled congress. He and Bannon just decide and set things in motion. Where's the debate and input? They don't have the capacity to think things through. I'm not even sure trump understands what's in the Constitution or what it means in principle. He thinks he can override anything.

THAT is why there's uproar. He might run his businesses like a dictator, but you cannot govern like that for long.

Although this explains why his businesses keep going under. Consensus is at the heart of democratic government.
A$A$A
I am a Trump supporter and worker. All during the election when the Dems and others thought their candidate would win, they argued only for their candidate. As the election came near and Bernie lost then the young people had nothing to do so they began to talk against other candidates. To try to win Hillary blasted Trump supporters with abuse and her supporters followed suit with that and montras as though they were hypnotized, it’s a form of business marketing tactic Robbins produced, repetition gives a mindset. When Hillary lost, her supporters were so shocked and in grief that they couldn’t cope and still can’t. We Trump supporters just need to cope as well and move forward and ignore the other partys’ supporters. They were told by Hillary/Obama/Bernie, etc. to “call out” everything Trump does and oppose “everything” he does, so like good minions they follow the flute. The dictionary says the word bashing means violent physical assault, and that’s not what’s happening. But of course the media would make things sound a lot worse than they are for trophies at the end of the year because of how many people follow them and believe them. The media is providing FALSE information. I’d suggest you make FB friends with those who voted for and back Trump.
A$A$A
Not half so annoying as Trump’s incredibly infantile God & Emperor of All Creation tweets and tv interviews. He should be locked away in a mental hospital. End of week one after Jan 20 and he spends more breath screaming about his crowd sizes and declaring his conspiracy theorist blabbermouths to be real news. Plus telling the press to shut their mouths. And on top of the delusional rants, he is the poorest off the cuff speaker the world has ever had the misfortune to hear. I pray that his fast food diet will do its worst.
A$A$A
Do you recall people bashing Obama during his administration? I do. It occurred from the very beginning and continued no matter what he did. Most of it was verbal, but it also occurred on some news channels. The same method Trump used to campaign (Facebook and Twitter) is being used to criticism him.

If you want to get rid of political content on Facebook see 3 ways to block political posts from your Facebook feed

This will not hide those posts made by people you know.
A$A$A
The Trump-bashing will likely slowdown temporarily if:

A State of Emergency. In the state of Virginia, when a snowstorm is coming, I feel almost anything not related to the snowstorm on the news is ignored.

A major International Incident takes place. Something along the line of another 9/11.

An assassination attempt, where Trump’s in the hospital and there's a 50/50 chance of survival in the operating room.

The Nation turns it's focus to another person for a couple days. For example, if Former President George H.W. Bush died tomorrow, the Trump-bashing might scale down on the news cycle, to focus more on Former President Bush. Then, the media focuses back to its regular Trump-bashing.
A$A$A
I don’t know that it will slow down, at all. If people are upset with Trump, they’ll vent their spleens.

However, the disaffection may be less visible when the media finally decides to move on to something else. The resulting deprivation of the stimulus will in time probably also be reflected in the public social conversation, which likewise will seize on more important matters, such as the Super Bowl, cute cat videos and organizing my sock drawer. But still, the feelings will be there, ready to jump out and ruin an otherwise civil conversation or maybe even a gratuitous romantic encounter courtesy of Tinder.

My 2 cents.
A$A$A
It won’t slow down because Trump is a bad person, a bad president, a would-be dictator, a liar, a narcissist, a thief who steals by refusing to pay people who have “sold” him goods and services and a corrupt man who is benefiting financially from the presidency.

Dozens of psychologists and psychiatrists have diagnosed him with malignant narcissism, which basically is a cross between evil and insane.

We ignore this incomplete list at our peril.
A$A$A
The attacks will only stop after Donald Trump is no longer president and thereafter the attacks will just morph into sarcastic remarks by the same people who wasted 8 years launching attacks on him.

The Democrats have too much invested in maintaining their verbal attacks and “demonstrations of resistance” to let up. One related reason is their need to remain in the Press spotlight and such verbal attacks and street demonstrations are the only things they’ll have to keep them there.

Though the term “True Believers”is out of vogue it still applies to both Liberal and Conservative Ideologues. This means each side truly and deeply believes they are in the right (always the Good Guys no matter the contradictory proofs). So neither side can or will give up on the belief they are the only champions of Truth, Justice and the American Way. That also means it’s the indistructible motive for Democrats to keep on attacking unto death (or running out of steam, whichever comes first). —- In a very real way this is all about fanatic ideologues who’re delusional about their own significance and abilities and their mission in life.
A$A$A
When will all the President Trump bashing slow down a bit?

So I am a half hearted Trump supporter, and I am getting REALLY tired of all the anti Trump bashing both in the real world and on the internet. It’s like whatever I scroll throu facebook and Quora, half the content on my feed is Trump bashing. Its really getting annoying.

Don’t hold your breath.

The way to quell the bashing would be for Trump to magically transform in the great president he told everyone he would be.

That’s not on the radar yet.

I don’t think even the SETI Institute can build a detector to pick that up in our near future.
A$A$A
You want a really honest answer? I'll let you in on a few secrets. Brace yourself.

I simply don't like Donald Trump. Not one bit. I don't like his lying. I don't like his actions during the campaign. I don't like his policies. I don't like most of his Cabinet picks. I don't like the people he's surrounded himself with. And I'm not alone in this sentiment either, considering that he lost the popular vote by a considerable margin and took office with a historically low approval rating.

And do you want to know why so many people are protesting and expressing their disapproval with Trump? We're doing it to deliberately get under his skin, and it's working. Our Narcissist-in-Chief can't help but take notice, and I take immense pleasure in seeing his angry and ineffective responses on Twitter.

Now, I realize and accept that he is the president. I respect the office he holds, but I don't have to respect him as a person, and one of the greatest things about this country is that I don't have to. The First Amendment gives us the right to free speech, which allows me to hold that negative opinion I have of Donald Trump and voice it loudly to anyone who is willing to listen. We all can, which is the reason why you're seeing so many people expressing their opposition.

If you don't like what you're seeing on Quora, you can easily go into your settings and change them so you no longer see questions and answers “bashing” Donald Trump. You have that right and what you see in your own feed is your own business. Same goes for Facebook. I'm not going to change my answers or opinions because you're tired of seeing them or find them annoying.

I also think it's funny how so many Trump supporters call people like me “special snowflakes” yet can't handle the heat themselves, but that's neither here nor there.
A$A$A
Bashing is annoying and unhelpful.

Trump actually ‘bashes’ anyone who opposes him by calling them names.

Bashing is stupid and all you can do, as far as I can see is refrain from bashing, and learn to debate/disagree respectfully.

AS FAR AS Trump bashing, Be careful not to call all the outrage he generates “bashing”.

 President trump is taking many action and making many statements that many many people around the world see as not only foolish but dangerous. If you care about your country, maybe you should look into the facts a little more and understand why people are upset and loud about it.

Please be careful not to equate Dissent with “bashing” Please dont confuse calling the administration out on straight up lies with bashing.

I sincerely wish our national conversation were more respectful and informed. and hope that it will be again one day.

 But, disagreements? Free Press? Demonstrations in the streets?

This is what democracy looks like.

 If you don’t pay attention, you may miss the demise of one of the worlds greatest democracies.

As far as how long will it last? I dont think the outrage dissent and resistance to the Trump agenda will quiet down any time soon. Most eligible voters didnt vote. Most of those who did vote voted for someone other than trump. Even many of the people who did vote for him are feeling betrayed or disappointed.. So I wouldnt expect many people to be happy with his administration. It is not like any other election where people are just disappointed to have lost and disagree with the ideas of the winning candidate. I don’t expect active opposition to Trump to quiet down until he and his crew are out of office.

Try asking people or even googling, why are people so angry at president trump.
A$A$A
When Trump’s presidency is over.

Just kidding (although that is quite logical).

I think that it depends on how extreme Trump’s actions are. If Trump does something highly offensive to one group of people it will be Trump bashing everywhere.

If I were to guess, it would be during the later years of his presidency, when people will have gotten used to him.

But hey, if there is Trump bashing, you can’t exactly stop that. Everyone has opinions, even if we don’t like them.

And by the way, I am not a Trump supporter.
E$E$E

