Q$Q$Q
How were businesses affected during the election span in India?
A$A$A
Thanks for the A2A.

I manage a small manufacturing unit and would say that the recent elections had a major impact on the businesses. In fact, processes (especially Govt. related) came to a complete stand still for the month long duration.

Here is how it affected us...

1) We shifted to a new plant so getting Govt. documents, licenses, power, etc took forever. Files were just not being processed since everyone was on "Election Duty".

2) There was no money in the market. I don't know how it happened and it would be great if someone could explain it to me, but during the election month, companies and industries were just not making payments. Everyone was waiting for the elections to get over to clear their dues.

3) We source and supply material from and to parts of India. Since the elections were held in phases across the country, industries dependent on each other but in different zones, couldn't get any real work done for the month. For example, we source our material from Gujarat, convert it in Bangalore and ship the final product to Chennai. Now if Gujarat went to vote on the 1st, their production was delayed. By the time they shipped it to Bangalore, we went to vote. Thus there was a delay here. When we finally shipped it out, Chennai went to vote. So the customer effectively got his order after a 3 day delay. (This is just an example to explain my point).

So not just the liquor industry but almost  all industries across the country (IT or non-IT) had  been affected during the election period.
A$A$A
Thanks for A2A to such a nice question. I'll answer through a few simple points:

1. Government Process Delay: The process of election does impact smaller businesses in certain sectors. Typically, manufacturing units may suffer to some extent. Basically, all those businesses which rely on government machinery do face trouble during the election, as a number of decisions get delayed.

2. Anticipation Delay: When you're eagerly waiting for something, you simply wait. And waiting means delay.

3. Cash flow trouble: There is a common tendency to see cash blockage before any major decision is about to happen. I've noticed cash flow becoming a trouble just before budget session. The same happens with elections. The fear instilled through anticipation leads to delay in clearing large payments. Situation may also turn out to be the opposite for a few companies.

4. Fear of the new laws over conduct: Election brings with itself new laws related to code of conduct. In some businesses, at certain levels, this may make a few people very conscious. I'm not elaborating here, but such over-cautiousness leads to delay in monetary transactions.

The above points can combine the effects to create a significant dent on economy, but the dent is easily corrected after the elections and is a necessary jolt to the businesses.

On another note, there is a flip side to the answer as well, which involves those smart marketers who use the election to their advantage. My latest venture, which is in the internet space, did build lot of positive traction due to the elections.
A$A$A
Election doesn't impacts business but the election results certainly do.

Elections are only for a day in every city, I don't think there were significant impacts on the business.

Also, business gets impacted when there are other options for the customers, not when there are no option ;)

P.S: I consider giving the election day as an investment, not as a loss.
A$A$A
Anecdotal answer. We were in Himachal around 16th May. This is the peak tourist season there. But many shopkeepers and others mentioned that it is down due to the elections.

On the other hand, I know that for people supplying election merchandise like banners, plastic flags, for printers, for tent providers etc, elections are a bumper time.
A$A$A
Considerable loss of revenue from bars and wine shops because of dry day. Usually dry day will be for two days during election and one day on the counting day.

Liquor being a state subject, the loss of this revenue is borne by state govt. For example there are roughly 8000 bars in Karnataka. Assuming each bar does a business of 40k per day, the loss to the state for three days closure is roughly 96 crores . some bars might sell in black(illegal) and make double profit on such days, but this will contribute to the black money not the state exchequer.
A$A$A
It depends a lot on the type of business. For most major businesses like IT and manufacturing, it results in loss of man hours. But some businesses like liquor, painters, carpenters, etc it is boom time.

Also elections in India is the time when most black money comes back into the system.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What payment platform does Booking.com use?
A$A$A
Booking.com: The largest selection of hotels, homes, and vacation rentals do not charge anything from the guests. They have 02 payment methods :

Pay at hotel. Guest make the bookings, give CC details to guarantee & pay at hotel. CC details are not even saved by them & transferred directly to the hotel.

Prepayment. In case of prepayment, again CC details are directly passed to the hotel & is charged by the hotel only.

Booking.com only charge commission to the hotel. Hence they are not required to have any payment platform.

However while transferring commissions to the affiliates, you can use Paypal among other to get the commission.
A$A$A
Well, there are 2 ways they handle the payment process.

1st:

Guests can pay directly at the hotel on their arrival or departure. And Booking. com will later collect their commissions from the sellers or hotels.

2nd:

Prepayment is another way that Booking. com uses to take care of the payment process. In this way, guests can pay the hotel bills before checking in.

However, if you’re a hotelier and would like to have an easy payment method to facilitate bookings for your guests, then I’d suggest you to check out iRoomi.

They have a secured payment system that you can easily integrate in your website.

You know, it offers multiple language and currencies support. So with it, you can make easier for your guests.

You can learn more about it here iRoomi - Vacation Rental & Hotel Booking System

Hope it helps

Cheers…..
A$A$A
They use 3G Direct Pay as their payment platform. It helps them to collect money from their guest. But if a guest does not pay online then they collect the money after their arrival at the hotel.

OTAs like booking. com is getting popular day by day. As they are leading the vacation rental business so they keep raising their charge frequently. They keep a big cut from each booking made via their site. Hoteliers keep paying them as they are getting bookings from their site however they charge a lot.

Now a lot of hoteliers are fighting back. They are making their own recognition with iRoomi. It is helping them to get their own custom branded website and a booking engine integrated into it. So that they can enjoy direct bookings from their own website and enjoy the whole profit. It can also help you to easily collect Booking. com, Expedia, and Agoda booking prepayments too.

If you are a hotelier I would recommend you to use iRoomi to manage & grow your business faster.
A$A$A
Well, Booking. com simply steers their guests to one of their partnered hotels, and in return they take a commission fees.

And to facilitate the entire transactions process, they provide their guests with 2 different Payment options.

First one is Direct Payment during check-in, and the second one is pre-payment using Credit Cards.

However, most small hotels prefer Direct-Payment method over Credit Cards.

But you know what?? These days guests find it more convenient to use Credit Cards to reserve a hotel.

Because credit cards provide them with a unique chance to skip the troubles of paying upon their arrivals.

Besides credit cards come up with more ease and amenities, which encourage guests to book hotel using these virtual cards.

Therefore, it is important for both small and big hotels to have a handy Virtual Card Processing System. This will help them not just to take care of their bookings made by credit cards, but to bring more simplicity in their Cancellation Policy.

See here how Virtual Credit Card Processing System can help you receive bookings from Expedia, Agoda, and Booking. com iRoomi - Simple Virtual Card Processing System For Hoteliers

Hope this helps….
A$A$A
Booking.com: The largest selection of hotels, homes, and vacation rentals uses 3G Direct Pay as the payment platform. Using this platform, the customer can easily make the payments.

Also, in case the payments are not made on the site, but to the hotel directly, they collect the commission from the hotel. This can be done by Direct Pay’s xPay module which is specifically designed for enabling the clients to transfer commission to Booking.com: The largest selection of hotels, homes, and vacation rentals.
A$A$A
It uses 3G direct pay as their payment platform. It is one of the most secured online payment methods for credit card users. They use 3G Direct Pay as their prepayment method. If a guest does not make a prepayment then they collect the payment from the hotel after they arrive there.

If you are a hotelier and looking for a system which will help you to get your payment via booking .com, you can use iRoomi too.

iRoomi can help you to manage all your listings on different channels like booking .com, Airbnb, VRBO or Expedia. It will allow you to receive payments from these channels directly from your dashboard. You can try it, hundreds of hoteliers are using iRoomi to manage their business and receiving payment from their clients.
A$A$A
On Booking.com, you can pay in cash at the time of stay. Also, they allow pre payment concept in some of the cases. Where you can pay half of the payment using online payment methods like Cards or Net banking.
A$A$A
On Booking.com you will have payment option via EFT/bank transfer and/or Credit Card/Debit card. EFT/Bank Transfer etc. There is one more option is pay at hotel.

Check link for more info : Booking.com Partner Help
A$A$A
What payment platform does Booking.com use?

They don’t use one.

Your details are passed to the hotel where they then process.

It is the Hotels booking/rate/deposit policy that will determine what happens next.

You may be charged immediately, you may be charged for only 1 night, you may not be charged at all. This is up to the Hotel to choose to do or not.

You can still be charged at time of booking for a refundable room rate. You need to ask the property for a refund should you cancel within stated cancellation guidelines.
A$A$A
They use both Post payment and pre-payment.

post payment : you can pay at the hotel

Pre payment; pay on the website

Though I'm not sure of revenue system, but there might be some incentives in pre-payment than in post payment. 
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What is the most popular Magento Extension in your country, i.e., which is most used?
A$A$A
In our country there are many but some of them are,

1. Advance Product Designer

Whether you are selling t-shirts, mugs, mobile covers or pillows; there’s no scope of boosting your sales if you do not provide with product customization. As the consumer demands are evolving with each passing day, it is important to provide with products that are appealing and created based on the choice of your customer. If you want to unleash the creative streak of your customers, try integrating Advance Product Designer to your Magento Store. It is a Magento based product designer tool that can help your customers to add text, graphics and cliparts to their favourite product and design as per their preferences. They can also have a preview of the products and order for them once they are print-ready.

2. MageMob Cart

MageMob Cart is a Magento mobile application extension which has been specifically designed for eCommerce stores to build a customized mobile app for their Magento Store swiftly and effortlessly. As you can create native apps using MageMob Cart, you can offer user-friendly experience to your customers on both iOS and Android platforms and they can access your store from anywhere. You can also provide many other useful features like Product Search, Product Reviews and Notifications for customers and admin etc. You can choose to check out other features of this extension.

3. Language Translator

This is a great extension for the ecommerce store owners who prefer multi-lingual stores. By using Magento product language translator extension, you can easily translate your store content into any other language which is suitable for your audiences. As you can translate and edit any part of your store, it becomes easier for you to reach a wider range of customer base. Language translator helps you to translate product details, CMS page details, store reviews and more. No more language blues!

4. Australia Post Shipping

If you have an ecommerce store based in Australia, Magento australia post shipping extension is sure to take your shipping woes away! Australia Post offers with manifold options to manage your store’s shipping without visiting the Australia Post Shipping website. Once you integrate Australia Post Shipping Extension to your store, there won’t be any need for you to waste your time and efforts going to the official website and setting up delivery for different shipments. You can generate shipping rates, add multiple shipping options, get a label printing option and do much more!

5. Fedex Smart Shipping

Fedex Smart Shipping enables store admins to take care of different aspects of FedEx freight shipping right from their own dashboard. Using this Magento Fedex shipping extension, you can perform several functions like manage shipment tracking, get live shipping rates, validate addresses, offer multiple delivery options and arrange for consignment pick up. You just need to install the plugin, configure the settings and you will be done. Integrating FedEx shipping with your store was never so easy!

6. MageMob Admin

Magemob Admin extension is a boon for ecommerce store owners who are always on the move! It helps them to manage important aspects of their Magento store backend from their mobile. By using this Magento mobile assistant extension, they can take care of product orders, stocks, new order notifications, order details and much more even when they are not around their workplace. MageMob admin is available in both extension and mobile app forms. (for iOS and Android) Once you start using Magento store manager mobile application, you will no longer miss out on product order, run out of stock and always make product deliveries on time! Isn’t that fantastic?

7. SEO Hub

Handling Search Engine Optimization for an wide-ranging ecommerce store can prove to be quite daunting. SEO Hub is an one of the best seo extension for Magento as it enables you to manage meta tags, data feeds, canonical URLs and much more. Apart from the features that are provided by a conventional extensions, it also offers some value added features like setting the amount of products on which the template can be applied, provision to set limits for metadata, notifications when execution goes wrong etc. Using this extension, you can ensure that your ecommerce store ranks high on some of the best search engines. What more could you ask for?!

8. Delivery Date Scheduler

Online buyers of today hate the word “anticipation”. If you do not want to disappoint your customers and make delivery of products on the dates decided by them, Delivery Date Scheduler is your way to go! Once you install this Magento order delivery date extension, you will be able to provide your customers with the convenient delivery dates on your ecommerce store and they will be able to decide their preferable time of delivery. You can also add a calendar view and format for the date and time of arrival to be displayed to your customers. This extension takes care of your delivery deadlines like an expert.

9. Australia Post eParcel

This again, is a useful extension for ecommerce store owners who are looking for eparcel shipping solutions in Australia. You can handle Australia Post eParcel Shipping right from your Magento store without visiting Australia Post eParcel Portal. It of course, keeps you away from the task of manual data importing and you also do not have to spend on label printing as you can do it right from your store. Fetching live rates from the official website, managing consignment labels and tracking shipments has never been easier! Make sure you check how it works.

10. Shop By Brand

A perfect app for the ecommerce store owners having brand conscious customers, Shop by Brand magento extension helps you to make brand shopping easy. It enables the store owners to add brand feature to products and show products clearly with their brand name and specifications. You can now filter the products brandwise, add brands menu, dedicate a separate page for each brand, create brand sliders and do much more. This product can be obtained at the most cost-effective rates.

11. MageMob Inventory

Are you looking for Magento inventory management software that can help you manage stocks competently? MageMob Inventory might come to your rescue. Using it, you can take care of the stock details while you are on the move. It has modules like inventory logs, purchase order creation, supplier management etc. You simply cannot find a better all-inclusive Inventory Management Solution. It is also available in Android and iOS based mobile app. Keep your inventory management issues at bay using MageMob Inventory.

12. Quotation Manager

If you do not like yourself and your customers through the prolonged process of asking for quotes through email and you proposing the quote back and forth, Magento quotation manager extension is the perfect extension to serve your needs. Once you integrate it with your store, customers can ask for a quote and you can propose it from the store itself. One of the most major benefits of this extension is that it can help you to keep your prices discreet without displaying it in public. Also, you can receive email notification on every step of the quotation process.

13. Advance Search With Solr

It can prove to be exhausting and time consuming for the customers to search products on an ecommerce store having thousands of products. Through Advance Search with Solr extension, you can provide your customers with swift and refined results. This means they can find exactly what they are looking for in no time! If you yearn to provide faster and advanced level Magento search extension, you must choose to integrate this beauty. This extension integrates Solr search with your Magento store, giving you enterprise level search functionalities.

14. MageMob POS

Looking forward to make hassle free sales in your next trade show/exhibition? No need to worry about placing orders on behalf of your customers as you can use MageMob POS (Point of Sale) application for the same. The app has a user-friendly dashboard and helps you to access your store from anywhere and order using your iPad/Android tab while interacting with your client. It is a perfect Magento POS extension for all ecommerce businesses making offline sales.

15. Gift Promotions on Cart Total

You can now reward your loyal customer base through gifts and promotional items using this extension. When the cart total of your customers crosses a certain amount, you can display the promotional offers you want. You can also boost your store revenue inducing them to purchase more gift items. This Magento gift product extension is extremely easy to configure and install for the customers and admin.

These are some of the best Magento Extensions that will help you make a splash with your online store in the year 2017. In case you haven’t decided which extension to buy, you can go through the entire list of our Magento extensions and go through all of them to find the one that can fulfill your current needs. You can also read different reviews and testimonials given by customers who have used our Magento extensions to make sure you choose the right product.

When we develop our Magento extensions, we keep the demands of current ecommerce businesses in mind. Are you ready to make them a part of your ecommerce business?
A$A$A
It doesn't matter which country you live in or which country are you targeting for eCommerce online store, as extensions play a vital role in increasing store visibility, revenue and brand value all over the world.

If you are looking for extensions that can add value to your store and bring more visitors to your store, here is a list of eCommerce extensions that you can consider:

Walmart Magento Integration | $279.30 ( Festive Offer 30% off)

Jet Magento Integration | $279.30 ( Festive Offer 30% off)

Sears Magento Integration | $349.30 ( Festive Offer 30% off)

Newegg Magento Integration | $279.30 ( Festive Offer 30% off)

Bonanza Magento Integration | $349.30 ( Festive Offer 30% off)

Wish Magento Integration | $349.30 ( Festive Offer 30% off)

Fruugo Magento Integration | FREE OF COST

These are few of the best Magento Extensions that would help you make a splash with your online store in this new year 2018 with the best offers.

These extensions are popular due to its high demand in every Magento store.

These integrations have been developed by CedCommerce, extension development company of high repute and Official Channel Partner of Walmart, Sears, Newegg, Tophatter, and Fruugo.

With these extensions, you can easily upload bulk products on the marketplace with auto synchronization of inventory and price. Orders of your products from the marketplace get imported into your Magento store and auto acknowledgment of order helps you to hit the orders without failure. These key features of the integrations help you to manage your store and orders from the marketplace with an ease.

In case you are confused which extension to proceed with, you can go through the entire list of Magento extensions and go through all of them to find out the one that can fulfill all your current needs.

You can also go through different testimonials and reviews given by our valuable customers who had used our Magento extensions to make sure that you choose the right product.

While developing our Magento Extensions, we always keep in mind the demands of current e-commerce businesses. Are you ready to make them a part of your e-commerce business?

For any doubt and query, raise a ticket by Clicking here.
A$A$A
Magento has different extensions which are great in helping store owners maximize conversions as well as boost sales. Here are some of my personal favorites in no particular order and not necessarily from any particular country:

1. Unbxd Magento Site Search Extension-  Magento Site Search Extension

Unbxd recently launched a 360 ° site search solution with unmatched relevance, advanced error-tolerance, merchandising, analytics and more for Magento.

Unbxd Site Search comes with:

1. Highly relevant search technology (Even for complex queries like ‘Brown leather jacket‘.)

2. Advanced spell check. (This has traditionally been an issue with Magento’s default site search)

3. 4 different autocomplete templates.

4. and  much more.........

It's incredibly easy to integrate with just 3 easy steps and comes with 40+ features catering to every aspect of digital retail site search, with dramatic conversion results.

2. One Page Checkout-  One Page Checkout

I've always thought and I am sure a lot of customers like me feel the checkout process is a really tedious one.

One Page checkout is an excellent solution which lets you reduce nearly 6 checkout steps to just 1. It facilitates multiple languages and is also integrated with paypal.

3. Banner Slider - Banner Slider - Magento Connect

I am personally a fan of flashy and animated content. Thats precisely what Banner Slider caters to. This app lets you create slides at the back end and flashes it to customers in the front end. Really simple yet powerful. It won’t go unnoticed with shoppers! 

4. Beetailer social commerce platform-http://www.magentocommerce.com/m...

In an age where everyone is connected via social media, it is essential for businesses to reach out to a large portion of potential customers on these platforms. Beetailer integrates your store to facebook, Google+ and Twitter. The app lets you customize and put your entire store on facebook allowing users to like and share the products with their friends.

5. Abandoned carts alerts pro by AdjustWare-  Abandoned Carts Alerts Pro

Majority of shoppers who abandon shopping cart for various reasons generally have a higher intent of purchase. This is a great little app with a simple functionality that allows you to send timely reminders to customers about products in their carts ensuring that there are no missed conversion opportunities. 

6. Mobile Assistant by eMagicOne-http://www.magentocommerce.com/m...

I am certain a lot of store owners away from their computers have concerns about what is going on in their stores. With my experiences in the digital retail business, I find this app really useful because it notifies store owners in real time about everything from looking up necessary products to notifications on orders, new customers and much more! This is not something that directly impacts conversions but worth a mention.

A gentle tip: You might not want to over do it with the reminders, it might turn against you.

Thanks, I hope this helps!

Disclaimer- *I work for Unbxd*
A$A$A
The most popular Magento extensions in any country are the following. These extensions are popular due to its high demand in every Magento store. The following extensions have been developed by FMEextensions, a Magento extensions development company of high repute.

Product Attachments: With this extension, you can upload files to product and CMS pages for people to download. You can upload files such as PPT, Docs, PDF, image, video etc. The key features of this extension by FMEextensions are:

Support Multiple File Types

Display File Icons

Restrict by Customer Groups

File Download Page

Download Limit & Counter

Product Questions: This extension allows you to create a dedicated FAQs page and a product questions tab on every product page. Moreover, to enable visitors to ask instant questions, an “Ask a question” form is also added on each product page. Following are the key features of this extension:

Dedicated FAQs page

Product Questions Tab

Ask a Question Form

Accordion Style & Themes

Questions Rating, Like & Reply

Additional Checkout Attributes: You can add custom fields on registration and checkout pages with this extension. Fields like Text field, radio buttons, checkbox, Date etc. can be added. The key features of this extension includes:

Add 9 Types of Custom Fields

Show Fields on Invoice Emails & PDFs

Assign Fields to Specific Products & Categories

Select Checkout Step to Add Custom Fields to

Restrict by Customer Groups

For More Free & Premium Magento Extensions: www.FMEextensions.com
A$A$A
You might have discovered that Magento basic setup doesn’t satisfy 100% of your needs. It’s only a basic version of a platform, which cannot preview all possible business solutions and needs. So, the necessary tools and options should be added manually. The Web and Magento Connect store offer social marketing and automation tools, better catching systems, conversion optimizers, email management, currency/shipping conversions and much more. It might be a challenge to select the right solutions and to add them. Trying to make this task easier, I share this shortlist of more than dozen useful extensions for your store. They don’t take much time to be installed. You may find a good solution you had been looking for, or find something new and useful you had not even been thinking about. The plugins are not listed in descending or ascending order: there is no ranking, as these are plugins for different purposes.

. Catalog Ajax Scroll - Catalog Ajax Scroll extension helps to load the next pages of the catalog pages automatically. As soon users scroll to the last row of the current product list, the next page is loaded simultaneously with powerful AJAX. The extension is totally useful for both shop owner and customers shopping on the site.

Particularly, this extension increases usability for your visitors by removing an extra click. The client is able to see more goods in less time without the need of searching for the 'next page' link/ button and looking around the page. It will bring about a wonderful shopping experience for all clients.

. Advanced Content Manager - Advanced Content builder extension for Magento 2 web store assists administrator to create a variety of content types, eg. portfolio, testimonial, gallery, news, lookbook... conveniently and effectively. Similar to creating attribute sets for the product on a store, this extension facilitates you to make different content types using available data fields. Once you have created a content type, the extension will automatically generate a page without you having to setup a certain CMS page for it. In addition, Advanced content manager extension does help administrator to create many other custom forms. As far as you can see, the default contact page in Magento cannot meet your demands since you have to add more fields to the form to turn it into a friendly-looking but working form. However, you are not a developer yourself so life seems not to be easy then. Forget about this limitation because our advanced Content extension is far beyond what you thought possible. Another disadvantage of the default form lies in the fact that it only tolerates one email address to receive contact details, but our extension offers more than that.

. Product Tabs - Default of magento v2, product details page just showing 3 tabs are: Details, More Information and Reviews. With this extension admin can add unlimited tabs. The tab can be use static blocks or attributes.

. Mega Menu - Main menu is one of the most important parts of a website. It is expected to include all necessary information and navigate the users to major pages of the website, moreover, it can flexibly display all categories or whatever content on a mouse-over without going through cumbersome steps. With our best experience, Magento Mega Menu is developed and optimized to allow both user and admin who don’t need to be developers themselves to manage effortlessly all information which they want to show on main navigation of a Magento website such as: categories, products, text contents, images, video, forms...

. Advanced Reports - Magento 2 Advanced Reports bring 8 report options for you. With this Magento extension you can easily check current/ past reports of products, customers, orders... in the back-end of your Magento site. Its vivid and modern look combined with clean code surely help you generate perfect solutions for your reporting with visual charts and tables.

. Store Locator - If you have an online store and one or many other physical stores, you will think how customers visiting your website can easily search for your physical stores and the nearest shop with their residence. Owing to that, your customers can easily find your physical store(s) to go shopping the next time. The answer is Store Locator extension definitely. It owns every feature mentioned above to help you increase the profit. All you need is installing and configuring it for your store, and see how easily to manage it.

. One Step Checkout - Do you know that 44% of customers quit the transaction right at the checkout process? Do you know these 44% of customers is frustrated because of complicated checkout page? Do you know that you can almost earn 1.5 times your current revenue each day? Well, that's why you need an extension of One Step Checkout in Magento.

. Daily Deals - Discounting products is one of the best ways to attract customers. In fact, a website having steady promotion programs or share groupon or daily deals will create a big demand for purchasing and attracting customers to return to it every day. With using of our Deal Extension Magento, you can make sale-off programs more powerful than ever.

There are many other useful extension, more references: ® Magento Extensions
A$A$A
Here is the result after I conduct a survey on Marketplace about top useful Magento 2 extensions .

1. Magento 2 Image Slider Extension

Image sliders are awesome when it comes to web design of your Magento 2 store. They are interactive and exhibit quite the appeal when placed at the right time and position. If you are interested in getting one, then Magento 2 image slider extension is a great choice for you.

It is a fully responsive & elegant image slider that supports editor for inserting content such as text, image, and video. It comes with OWL Carousel and can be displayed at any position of the user’s choosing with CMS and Widget. You get support 10 slides with tons of animation.

2. Magento 2 Brand Marketplace Extension

Created to help customers find their products quickly without any unnecessary clicking and searching, Ves brand extension is a great package for users who need products sorted by brands or manufacturer. You can also show your brand logos block as you please on any position of the website. It comes with user-friendly features and rock solid functionality to live up to the Magento 2.0 expectations.

3. Magento 2 Form Builder Extension

This Magento Form Builder extension is a reliable upgrade to all your web forms that satisfy the needs and demands of the many website owners. WebForms Pro 2 gives a visual admin panel to drag and drop elements and form fields so you have full control over the content and its appearance. Being one of the most popular themes in Magento 2, it has an integrated user-friendly interface which is as simple as Google form.

4. Magento 2 Product Slider Marketplace Plugin

Organize and showcase your list of products neatly and beautifully with Magento 2 product slider list extension. Instead of using the usual listing, Magento 2 Product Slider allows creating several slider titles such as bestsellers, new products, featured products, best deals products or most reviewed products. This extension gives a great functionality to the website by highlighting the products hence making them more susceptible to sale.

Please follow the link to read more the topic.

Thanks you!
A$A$A
These following Magento extensions are not only popular in my country but also worldwide:

Magento 2 Layered Navigation: This extension allows the visitors to instantly find what they want among thousands of amazing products in your shop owing to the convenient navigation system. It is more than just “filtering products”, its mission is bringing about the customer satisfaction.

Download: Magento 2 Layered Navigation

———

2. FREE Magento 2 Ajax Cart: This extension will give you a fast and smooth add-to-cart process. Products can be added to shopping cart immediately without reloading the page. Moreover, it allows the customers to check cart overview including product name and information, number of items in the cart and subtotal directly in the Ajax popup. Not yet, there is a block of related products in the popup to stimulate customer buying.

Download: FREE Magento 2 Ajax Cart

———

2. Magento 2 Ajax Suite (FREE): This extension includes Ajax Cart (HOT), Ajax Suite, Ajax Login, Ajax Wishlist and Ajax Compare, which helps you to Eliminate All Annoying Page Reloading and replace these by nice and elegant popups.

Magento 2 Ajax Cart (HOT): instantly add products to cart and check cart overview without moving to any pages.

Magento 2 Ajax Suite: manage and synchronize all of the popup design and effects

Magento 2 Ajax Login: instantly login with social accounts without reloading the page

Magento 2 Ajax Wishlist: easily add items to wishlist while staying in the current page

Magento 2 Ajax Compare: add multiple products to the comparison list in the shortest time.

This is an indispensable extension for stores that want to enhance customer experience.

Download: Magento 2 Ajax Suite (FREE)

———

3. Magento 2 Daily Deal: This extension will boost your sale by allowing you to create as many deal as possible and stimulate customers’ buying. The buyers would not leave their eyes from the hot Today Deals, regret of missing Previous Deals and desire for Coming Deals in your store.

Download: Magento 2 Daily Deal

———

4. Magento 2 Banner Manager: No one would like to visit a store that looks boring and unattractive. This is the reason why this extension is a must-have for your store. It allows you to create and manage all banners - at all positions - easily and effectively.

Download: Magento 2 Banner Manager

———

5. Magento 2 Store Locator: Having this extension installed is the fastest way to bring your customers to your physical stores. Owing to smart integration with the Google Maps, this great extension allows you to display the whole chain of stores as well as allow the customers to search for their nearest stores.

Download: Magento 2 Store Locator

———

6. Magento 2 Popup Manager: This is the most powerful popup builder extension currently. With none designing and programming knowledge, you are still able to create a great deal of attractive popups (Newsletter, Contact Form, Login Form, Cookie Compliance, Static Block, Custom) with thoroughly customized styles, effects and content so as to get the highest level of popup conversion.

Download: Magento 2 Popup Manager

———

8. Magento 2 Multiple Wishlists: This is a powerful module that allows customers to create varied lists of desired products to purchase in the future. Especially, for stores providing items that are regularly purchased such as groceries, vitamins, office supplies, this extension would be indispensable for their buyers.

Download: Magento 2 Multiple Wishlists

———

9. Magento 2 Event Calendar: This extension allows you to easily create multiple events and sell event ticket as a virtual product in your store. All of the events will be displayed in a nice colorful Google Calendar, showing the customers past, current and upcoming events.

Download: Event Calendar Extension for Magento 2

———

10. FREE Magento 2 Splash Page: This extension allows you to create multiple types of splash page such as the Coming Soon Page, Maintenance page, Welcome Page, Product Release Page, Promotion Notification Page, …before the customers enter the main website.

Download: Splash Page for Magento 2

———

11. Magento 2 Multiple Order Emails: This great extension allows you to create a dozen of custom order email templates and send them to different customers. Each template will be followed by a predefined set of rules based on customer groups, product attribute, shipment and payment methods. Therefore, the extension will help you to send right emails to the right customers instead of sending only one email template to all buyers as Magento Core function.

Download: Multiple Custom Order Emails for Magento

———

FIND MORE GREAT MAGENTO EXTENSIONS HERE.
A$A$A
Magento is one of the most popular and ideal platforms for a huge number of the online store.

BrushYourIdeas is an advanced tool for Magento that allows your customers to make their own printable designs that they can use on the products. It is a dynamic customization tool with the most advanced set of features.

The good thing about this extension is it works with every product type. You can use it to customize t-shirts, shirts, trousers, shorts, cards, stationery, mugs, coasters, laptop and mobile skins, signs, posters, banners, etc.

This tool will be a good to your E-commerce store if you sell any of these products.
A$A$A
E-commerce store is for buying and selling the goods/services only not to provide customer support..

As we are the largest suppliers of Magento1 and Magento2 plugins and also offering UVdesk Free Magento2 Helpdesk to deliver exemplary customer support.

Whether you are a multinational corporation or local SME, whether you have made your name is a market or still in a bootstrap mode, customer engagement and support are key to thrive in this cutthroat environment.

As long as you remain connected with your customers either socially or digitally, recognising and solving the pain points of customers will continue to boost your business.

Enterprises ought to focus more on providing better customer support to their existing product instead of investing more on creating new divisions.

Nowadays merchants are not selling on single platforms like on their website only.They are selling on multiple platforms including marketplaces eBay, Amazon, Flipkart and more.

So you can imagine your customer is quite distributed and it's almost impossible to reply quickly on all those platforms.

There is no any other way to provide instant customer support than to use helpdesk.

Why we built UVdesk Free Magento2 Helpdesk?

We have built this for e-commerce store owner as we are the tremendous in this line so we wanted to pass this to others that how to excel.

Features and benefits of UVdesk Free Magento2 Helpdesk

This app is free of cost.

It allows customer to send support request 24x7 .

Admin and assigned could reply on support request .

Using effective tools to manage tickets support team could respond quickly.

Admin and assigned could distinguish all tickets based on their status Pending, Resolved, Spam, Answered.

Support staff can filter any ticket on the basis of Assigned to, Customer, Group, Team, Priority, Type, Tag, Mailbox, Source, after date, before or on a date.

Ticket reply to the customer can be sent either from Magento back-end or UVdesk Dashboard.

The admin and its assigned has an option to attach any supported file in its reply message

Management and support simultaneously under crow's net.

Both admin and customer gets notified on new query and new reply respectively.

Both admin and buyer can view history of tickets.

Magento 2 SSO- With Magento 2 SSO, your customers can directly login to your support portal through their existing account on your Online Store.

Magento1 SSO-With Magento SSO, your customers won't have to deal with the overhead of going through the entire registration process and can simply login to your support portal through their existing account on your Online Store.

UVdesk is a Omni channel helpdesk for providing quick assistance to customers through diverse horizontal mediums. It needs only quick sign up to be yours for delivering fantastic customer support for your channel

Numerous Apps Integrations

Automated Systems

Effective Ticket Tools

Store Upfront Setting

Custom Forms

Tracking of Support Staff

Much More

For any doubt and query raise a ticket on HelpDesk UVdesk Support
A$A$A
There are a lot of Magento Extensions used nowadays but to my knowledge One Step Checkout is the most popular one. To explain why One Step Checkout becomes the must-have extension, let me demonstrate to you some of its features.

First, this extension simplifies Checkout procedure from six to one step only. Customers have to wait no more as all checkout stages are displayed on one page.

Second, with the development of tablets and smartphones, One Step Checkout allows your checkout page to fit every devices. From now on, people can place orders everytime and everywhere.

Third, Auto-suggest address give fascinating experience as customers do not have to fill in all spaces themselves. The most interesting thing which is only available in One Step Checkout of magecheckout is that their address will be fully filled automatically by Google Maps Suggestion while they click on Find My Location button.

Forth, One Step Checkout also has Social Login integration feature which allows customers login/sign up simply in clicks with social accounts such as Google+, Twitter, Facebook, Linkedin, Instantgram... Customers will be surprisingly excited when figuring out that new account has been created before they can realize.

And the last, which is also the best, several Marketing tools ares supported in One Step Checkout Extension. For example, banner-ads appear as an order matched display rules because of Checkout Promo feature.

If you start to interesting with this Extension, a demo is always available for you to try at Magento 2 One Step Checkout Extension.

Hope this help!
A$A$A
Developer Debug Tool

This extension is extremely handy for the Magento developers. And since it reduces the efforts in troubleshooting, finding errors in the codes written by them. It increases their time and precious energy which they can focus on to develop the products.

KB
A$A$A
This answer is generic not specific to any country.

If you are looking for B2B Platform using Magento, then I would suggest you the following Extensions:

Store Restriction Pro

Store Restriction Pro provides you with complete functionality to restrict your store in many ways (disabling registration, requiring customer approval for login, restricting access to certain pages/sections in the store, allowing guest access to certain pages from restricted stores, etc.)

Custom Redirect Pro

Custom Redirect Pro allows customer group wise redirection to custom page after register, login & logout actions with many extra features.

Customer Group Selector / Switcher

Customer Group Selector / Switcher allows customers to select their required customer group at registration & checkout, using group dropdown or group code.

Mass Importer Pro: Price Importer (Regular, Special, Tier & Group Prices)

Mass Importer Pro: Price Importer is the fastest import tool for importing/updating different prices like regular, special, tier & group price in Magento.

Hope this helps in find out the quality magepsycho.comPremium Magento Extensions
A$A$A
Here is Top 6 the most  popular Magento Extension in any country :

Magento Product video extension : To help admin to add video products or embedded videos from youtube or other sharing sites.

Magento Advanced reports extension : To make effectively strategy marketing with 8 customizable report types ( sales by Country, Customer Groups, Coupon code, Produt, Hours, New and Returning customer… ) in back-end of your Magento site.

Magento Daily Deals extension : To attract more people to promote product discounts with a countdown timer and promotion price. Also, it will help to increase your business sales

Magento Layered Navigation extension : Help customer to search desiring products by categories, brands and other product options (prices, colors, sizes, .... )

Magento One Step Checkout extension : To simplify checkout process for customers and increase the sales, your customer can complete their orders by only one step

Magento Mega Menu extension : To show all product informations such as: categories, products, text contents, images, video, forms… on main navigation of a Magento website

Visit Extension page :http://www.magesolution.com/ We also offer FREE extension and themes
A$A$A
Self designed products online

Currently, we have access to a technology which is only for big brands (Nike, Decathlon, etc ...):Magento Product Designer with business development tools to design products so that viewers have the opportunity to express themselves by self-designed products, and thanks to the co-creative relationship the viewer to date more and more intertwined with the service provider!

To boost sales!

Our products help users create and design products (shoes, clothing, automobiles, decorations, jewelry, etc ...) by editing the color and texture, add the text as you wish, or add their favorite photos.

Thus, self design products online is an innovative solution to help the products according to the needs that are not bound to the model available. Thanks to this tool, viewers can create a unique product, which helps businesses sell more products.

This is a simple tool to help expand and unique product portfolio and business support on social networks where people will share products purchased entirely by their own self designed recently.

Product design by simulating 3D !

This automated tool designed to give viewers a unique experience because they can view products in 3D with 360 ° rotation helps goods become more prominent since the user can return to the animation watch all 3 dimensions: front, back, side tilt etc...

Interface is programmed as required by the customer.

We develop product design module supports 3D max and enhance the user experience on the corporate website. Fully compatible with the format and color of the corporate brand, the interface is written in HTML5, Flash and can more quickly integrated on mobile devices, tablets, desktops.
A$A$A
There is uncountable number of extensions available that bets to be best to install, but in my country, below given listed extension are appreciated. 

Advance Store Locator

Are your visitors finding difficulty to search your store? Get Advance Store Locator and install in your website with store’s or business’s locations and their related information. This extension enables to search your location through city-wise, country-wise, and state-wise. It’s store search based on Zip code.

Customer Testimonial - Video and Image Content

Now, highlighting your work with Video and Content Testimonials extension becomes easy. This extension enables users to add their testimonials with YouTube videos, pictures, etc. It supports multi-store and multilingual and even, website-owner can also manage on who is posting testimonials and give reply to them.

All Ajax Pro

This extension has feature-rich Ajax extension for Magento store. With this extension, users can have a collection of Ajax based functionality such as Ajax Add-to-Cart, Ajax Add-to-Compare_list, Quick Registration, and so on. All Ajax Pro enables deletions and additions without page reloads.

Advance Magento News Module

This plugin enables visitors to update with the development and achievements News. It lists out news according to category, products, & CMS page with different positions, i.e. left, right and center. It also has social media features for users to share news on Google+, Facebook and so on.

All in One Banner Pro

Want to enhance your website’s look with fabulous banners? Get All in One Banner Pro Extension and have a collection of unlimited banners with 26 different sliding effects. This extension enables to create banners for particular store view, as it is supports multi-lingual and multi-store

If you like above given extension, but want to customize as per your requirements, then contact us now.
A$A$A
In my country, One Step Checkout extension is very appreciated and it is the necessary extension for almost ecommerce store. Because it brings attractive benefits for both store-owners and customers:

FOR STORE-OWNERS:

- Speed up x10 times checkout process by removing unnecessary steps.

- Understand customers better by survey question.

- Reduce abandoning customer rate by abandonment cart.

FOR CUSTOMERS:

- Save much time in shopping online.

- Being supported variety payment methods, address shipping and delivery time.

- Change order information instantly on page checkout.

These benefits give the most conveniences and comforts to sellers and buyers.

Moreover, you can experience our extension with the demo at http://magecheckout.com!!!
A$A$A
I agree with @Gabriel Guarino: "the most popular extension in any country is One Step Checkout.".

In France, companies I work for are using:

Google Universal Analytics , to deal with GUA

Product questions for customers questions

Show out-of-stock products last Magento , to push un the last position unaivailable products

Manage bundle on Magento, the simple way , to make bundle (amazing!)

Magento AJAX Cart Pro Extension | Magento shopping cart - aheadWorks

and

Follow Up Email by aheadWorks

and many others but they are the ones ...
A$A$A
Here's list of top 5 must-have Magento extensions for anystore in any country http://magentoajaxcart.org/top-5...

Of course, it varies a lot depending on the type of business (size, industry, locations, etc). If you're talking about a small or medium business, you (or other readers) should consider Social Login Magento Facebook Extension. http://www.magestore.com/magento..., http://www.magestore.com/magento..., http://www.magestore.com/magento..., http://www.magestore.com/magento..., http://www.magestore.com/affilia..., Magento Ajax Cart extension
A$A$A
Hi, I think Wholesale Fast Order deserves to become one of the best-seller extensions. The extension optimizes customer ordering process by allowing them to add multiple products to cart quickly. It is really good for B2B business and wholesalers. Besides, it works well on all Magento versions.

Let’s see some outstanding features of Wholesale Fast Order for Magento 2:

Download Wholesale Fast Order for Magento 2 here
A$A$A
99.9% Global Store have required Following 2 Magento Extension

(1) CONTACT FORM BUILDER FLEXIBLEFORMS

If the website has an easy contact form, it is an excellent handset for e-commerce owners to easily have a web site or a questionnaire.

This form allows the user to send details or feedback via contact or feedback form The Magento Contact Form Extension facilitates the inclusion of a quick contact form on your e-commerce website,

So easy to use and handle. Magento form builder Including CAPTCHA-compliant contact form extension, protects your site from spamming.

These contact forms can be configured so that the e-mail is sent or messages sent to the database dashboard.

(2) BLOG - MAGENTO EXTENSION

Setting up an e-commerce blog by adding Magento blog extension surely allows you to optimize your site for the SEO. However, if you include Best Blog extension for magento in your eCommerce store and do the regular blogging, then your site will be rank higher on Google search engine results pages.

Moreover, blogging generates positive effects on rankings for many websites and certainly increase the sale of your online store.
A$A$A
The extensions created by our developers are available on our site for

your perusal and use. We create extensions to fit your needs with

creatively smart solutions, which make your website aesthetically

pleasing and user-friendly. We can craft specially customized extensions

 to provide better customer care features and also perform SEO-specific

activities.

Daily / Multiple Deals Advanced Extension

oCode T Designer

Carousel Banner Slideshow Extension

T-Shirt Design Studio / Tool - HTML5 Supported Mobile Compatible

Product/Category Page Comment Extension

There are many more you can get from : Custom Magento Extension Development Service
A$A$A
Magento Fraud Prevention & Blacklist Extension is an extension that every e-commerce site must have. It provides the following benefits to the Magento webstore owners:

Prevent fraud independently using custom blacklisting rules

Automatically detect and blacklist fraudulent orders

Easily manage suspicious and blacklisted orders in the back-end

Prevent fraudulent orders from being placed, paid and shipped

Create rules based on any customer attribute combination

Blacklist the customer's billing and/or shipping address

Blacklist customer accounts and block guest during checkout

Block fraudulent orders before payment processing

Blacklist orders based on failed payment transactions

Configure the amount of fraud suspicions required for blacklisting

Set up blacklisting rules per customer group and store view

No periodical subscription fees or additional service costs

Prevent charge-backs and save yourself a lot of trouble and money!

Find more info and ead what customers have to say about it here: Magento Fraud Prevention & Blacklist Extension
A$A$A
To me, they are:

1. One Step Checkout Extension

2. Mega Menu Extension

3. Order Upload Extension

4. Color Swatch Extension With Zoom

Hope it helps
A$A$A
Medma Magento Marketplace is one of the most popular magento extension among magento developers and users. It help to convert magento store into multi vendor magento marketplace easily. It have lots of customization options to customize your magento ecommerce website according to your requirement. It feature make your website more effective and profitable. Some feature of medma magento marketplace module extension given as below:

1. Vendor Management

2.Set Commission Rate

3. Supports All Products

4. Bulk Product Import & Export

5. Vendor Verification

6. Manual / Automatic Product Approval

7. Enable / Disable Products

8. Review & Rating

9. Email Notification

10. Real-time Product Status

11. Supports Offline Transactions

12. Vendor Account Statement

Medma provide 30days free trail for magento extension. Visit link for more details of Medma Magento Marketplace Extension.
A$A$A
As a software advisor i would recommend you to use the following extension at your magento store. They will help you out in increasing customer engagement and sales conversion.

Medma One Step Checkout

Medma Matix

Medma Disable Customer Registration Magento 2

Medma Copy or Delete Custom Options on Multiple Products Magento 2

Medma Magento2 MarketPlace

Medma Move Bulk Products In Multiple Categories Magento 2

Lazy Loader
A$A$A
Without a doubt, the most popular extension in any country is One Step Checkout.

I think is the first requirement that a client ask for, the reason for this is:

- The Checkout is the most important page regarding the conversion success

- There are so many fields in many steps that are so simplyied by using this kind of extension
A$A$A
According to me every extension has its own role. As it is not necessary that everyone need same one at same time so time to time it changes according to requirement. As their are a lot of extensions like :

Daily / Multiple Deals Advanced Extension for Magento

Magento Product Quick View Options Extension

World Store Locator Magento Extension

Magento Product PDF Manual Extension

Magento Social Media Sharing Extension

Social stream magento extension

And many more at http://bit.ly/1zSX4Hj
A$A$A
Must-have extenions for your online store

1. One Step Checkout:

=> One Step Checkout

2. Reward Points:

=> Reward Points
A$A$A
This one-

InstantSearch+ Best eCommerce Site Search

because it features:

instant search as you type, responsive design for mobile, out of the box search, typo correction, product ranking, product recommendation, costume search results page, many filtering options and all of that beauty at an affordable cost. 

it is a No integration, No coding, No maintenance cloud based app.

Disclaimer- I work at Instant Search+
A$A$A
According to a survey of my company, the extensions are used the most is my country are the following:

Magento reward points extension

Magento follow up email extension

Magento Faq extension

Magento banner slider extension

Magento social login extension

Magento product labels extension

Moreover, you can experience MageHit's extensions with the demo at: Magento Extensions
A$A$A
There are lots of Magento extensions popular in my country. Check some of I

have listed below,

Press Release

Our Services

Product Attachments

Mega Menu

Site Maintenance & Coming Soon

Shop By Brand

Best Deals – Special Products with Countdown

Facebook & Twitter Integration
A$A$A
No matter what country you live in or what country you are targeting for eCommerce online store, but the extensions play same role in increasing store visibility, revenue and brand value. If you are looking for great extensions to add value to your store and bring more visitors to your online store, here are some eCommerce extensions you can consider:

Add Multiple Products to Cart

Share Me Coupon

Store Maintenance & Coming Soon

Email & SMS Notifications

Import/Export Product Reviews

Quick Search by Brands

Blue Dart Shipping Integration

Daily Deals/Multiple Deals
A$A$A
Module Bazaar released its first extension on Magetno 2.0 version - Magento 2 Payeezy First Data GGe4 Hosted Extension. It is the most popular Magento extension used for better user experience.

Modulebazaar's Magento 2 Currency Auto Switcher + GeoIP Location extension allows you to identify and redirect the user to the respective URL or store with their native language. Identifying the user's location based on the IP address
A$A$A
Magento marketplace extension plays a vital role in e-commerce business world. These extensions help to convert an existing magneto store to a perfect marketplace with multi-vendor portal management.

Admin:

Store admin can easily monitor and manage list of vendors and can also manage seller accounts.

Store admin has full control to view the list of sellers and manage them accordingly.

Store Owners can limit or restrict categories for the sellers.

Seller:

Sellers can add their products with all details and they will have a quick access to track sales information. Seller can add banner, shop logo and custom HTML content that will be displayed on Seller Page with separate product collection.

Buyer:

Buyers can view and compare prices from several vendors for a single product and they can also view reviews and rating of the seller on each product page.

Magento Marketplace Extension
A$A$A
There is this new extension Apptuse - Instantly create iOS and Android apps for your website which is gaining popularity. It supports Magento +5 other platforms.

Recently it was trending on producthunt too - Apptuse on Product Hunt
A$A$A
In short, Ecommerce can be considered as one of the most popular words in the world now. So, magento extensions have made terrific contribution in assisting numerous Ecommerce store owners attaining intended performance.

Hope this is good answer...
A$A$A
As I know, There are some popular  and cheap extensions such as

Magento one Step Checkout extension,best magento one step chekout

product video magento module - Just $39

Magento mega menu|Mega menu Magento|Mega menu extension

Or if you look for brand extensions, I recommend

Magento extensions | magento themes | magento modules
A$A$A
Not only in my country, but the following extensions are popular all around the world for better shopping experience:

Add multiple products to cart

Mega Menu

Recent sales notification

Guest abandoned cart

Auto re-order products

Request a quote
A$A$A
List of Popular Magento Extensions that are helpful in boosting Conversion rates for any Ecommerce Store are-

Advanced Quick Deals Magento Extension

Easy Multiple Simple Products Add To Cart Magento Extension

Enhanced Abandoned Cart Magento Extension

Price Based on Customer Group In Magento

Bulk SMS Textart Connector

Highlight Products Sold Count
A$A$A
Mageguru is a Magento extension development company. You can explore top Magento 2 extensions. There are some most popular Magento extension-

Simple SMTP Extension for Magento 2

Helpdesk Extension for Magento 2

Social Login Extension for Magento 2

Lazy Load Extension for Magento 2
A$A$A
For sure these ones:

One Step Checkout - GoMage LightCheckout: Magento One Page Checkout

And Magento Feed Manager - GoMage Feed Pro: Magento Feed Manager
A$A$A
Magento 2 One Step Checkout is one of the most popular extensions because every site need a fast checkout for customers

This module can simplify the checkout process of default Magento

Reduce 2-step checkout of default Magento 2 into 1 step only when all information is displayed in 1 page

Automatically detect customer location by using Geo Ip and pre-fill in the checkout page and Autocomplete customer addresses by Google Suggest

Auto update informationSupport multiple payment methods

Allow customers to select their own delivery date and time right on the checkout page

Add more filed into checkout page: gift message option and newsletter subscription
A$A$A
All are best, as per my view every Magento Extensions are as important as each. So some of them are free to use and some of them are paid.

1. PDF Catalog Print Advance

2. Product Bundled Discount

These all are very well developed Magento Extensions.
A$A$A
In today time lots of extension are avaiable according to the clinet need. According to me every extension that helps store owner is important. Buy few I know are -

Bluedart Magento Extension Integration - (Helps store owner to give shopper option to check Cash on Delivery)

http://www.envisionecommerce.com...

  Abandoned Cart   Magento Extension- (Helps in get cart abondoned customers) http://www.envisionecommerce.com...

Custom Option In Magento - http://www.envisionecommerce.com...

Discount Coupons For Multiple Shipping- http://www.envisionecommerce.com...
A$A$A
From my experience I can say that the most important extensions are the following:

Improved Layered Navigation

Auto Add Promo Items

Single Step Checkout

Color Swatches Pro

Product Manager Toolkit
A$A$A
The most popular magento extension in our country is One Step Checkout, it reduces the checkout peocedure to just one step. You can directly install it from here One Step Checkout
A$A$A
General :

Magento Facebook, Google, Twitter, LinkedIn and Yahoo Login Extension

Try it out!

Seasonal :

Magento Snow Fall, Santa Claus, Decorative lights, Footer decorations etc.,

Live Demo
A$A$A
Hello,

In this competitive world, where everyone is looking out for ways to sustain in the market, there is something for all the online store owners which can help you transform your online store. Yes, you guessed it right; Magento extensions are here to take up your stress! So, let us take a sneak peak of the benefit of making use of the Top Six Ways Magento Extensions Can Modernize Your online Store - blog  to develop your online store.
A$A$A
I consider all magento extensions are really important and must. But there are some extensions which are popular. They are as:

Magento PDF Upload - to upload multiple PDF files

Credit limit - to adjust credit limit for your customers

Group Product Import - to import products

TNS i.e. Transaction Network Services Payment

Europa Sports API
A$A$A
For any online stores, here are must-have magento extensions:

1. Magento one page checkout

2. Magento mega menu

3. Shop by brand

4. Ajax dropdown cart

5. Quick shopping

You can refer more extensions at: Magento Development Agency
A$A$A
The company I made this for is based in the UK, it's a short video of 7 of what they consider the top extensions:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...
A$A$A
In my country - Viet Nam - the most popular Magento Extension is Mega Menu for Magento 2 . So let’s check out some of Magento 2.0 Extension from One-stop shop for Powerful and Smart Magento® Extensions, Themes.
A$A$A
Lots of great extensions mentioned! I am putting together a community poll of the best Magento extensions: Top 10 Magento Extensions as Voted by The Community

Would love to get your feed back for the next update!
A$A$A
For sure, Magento Order Upload Extension and Magento One Step Checkout Extension are the most popular Magento extensions in any countries. There are many other ones but for me those two extensions are the best.
A$A$A
Check the collection bellow:

- Magento Shopping Cart

- Magenti Shipping

Hope it an helpyou :D
A$A$A
These are very useful extensions as per users point of view.

Add Multiple Products to Cart

Quick Contact - Magento Connect
A$A$A
Navigation menu design is the thing that your visitor will care the first. So, make sure that you have a clear and helpful menu. In addition, if you are selling many category or many type of product, it is a good idea to use Mega menu extension. That caught your customers right away and serve them the best navigation.

Magento Mega Menu - Best Magento Navigation Menu Extension
A$A$A
You may not know that most Magento menu extensions cause site slower. So make a wise choice! Luckily, Magento navigation menu not only remains your site speed but also visualizes your Magento navigation menu by various provided templates.
A$A$A
I guess you should be tired of going through the list of top Magento extensions. I would just suggest you to check these three top ones.

And I am sure you’d fall in love with them:

Quick Search By Brands

Add Multiple Products to Cart in Magento®

Daily Deals / Multiple-deals
A$A$A
In my country, let's try Magegiant here: Magento Extensions

I'm using it for my Summi shop. Really fast.

They have Life-time support and good price.
A$A$A
Certainly, the most popular extension is Magento Reward Points Pro Extension, in 2013 we sold more than 200 extensions and in the first part of 2014, we sold nearly 300 extensions nationally.
A$A$A
I am using One step checkout from Magegiant

http://www.magentocommerce.com/m...
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
India: What is the process for online payment of income tax?
A$A$A
Refer to the following guide developed by http://mytaxcafe.com

Online payment of Income Tax can be done through two mediums:

1. Income tax website of government.

2. Any Bank’s website that provides Online Income tax payment facility for e.g. HDFC online tax payment and SBI Online payment portal. Also, paying taxes online through a bank website requires you to have an account with that bank.

Step-by-step guide to pay taxes online at the government site of Income tax

Step 1 : Visit the website, https://onlineservices.tin.egov-.... The e-Payment page of Income Tax

Department is displayed. All the fields marked with * are mandatory.

Step 2 : Under Non-TDS/TCS, click 'CHALLAN NO. / ITNS 280' as shown in the figure below.

            Figure 1: Online payment of taxes at https://onlineservices.tin.egov-...

Step 3 : In the resultant form, if you are an individual paying your income tax, select '(0021) Income-Tax (Other than companies)' (refer figure shown below).

Step 4 : Enter your correct Permanent Account Number.

Step 5 : Read the meaning of Assessment Year and choose the correct Assessment Year. If you are paying income tax on the income earned during 2014-15, select the Assessment Year as 2015-16.



Step 6 : Enter your Address details (refer figure shown below).

Step 7 : From Type of Payment, select '(300) Self-Assessment Tax' if you are paying your Income Tax due which is determined during the preparation of your Income Tax Return (refer figure shown below).

Read the meaning of Self-Assessment Tax / Advance Tax. carefully before selecting the type of payment,

Step 8 : Select the bank name through which you want to make the payment.

Step 9 : Click Proceed.

                   Figure 2: E-Payment page of Income Tax site

On the next screen you will be shown all the details that you entered in previous steps, make sure that all the details are correct.

                                  Figure 3: E-Payment details

Step 10 : If your name, PAN, and other details are correctly displayed, click'Submit to the Bank' (as shown in the figure above) and proceed further.If you want to make any changes, click 'Edit'.

Step 11 : You will be redirected to the bank’s payment gateway whereyou will be asked about the amount of income tax paid.After successful payment of income tax, an online Challan/confirmation will be generated.

Step 12 : Save the copy What is the meaning of Assessment Year?of Challan and note BSR Code, Amount of Income Tax, Challan No. and Challan Date. You will require these details during efiling of Income Tax return.

This completes your whole process of paying income tax online.

What is the meaning of Assessment Year?

Assessment Year is the year which immediately follows the Financial Year. Before proceeding for payment, confirm the assessment year for which you are paying the taxes. If your assessment year is incorrect, you may encounter trouble and you might not get credit of Income taxes paid.

Difference Between Financial Year and Assessment Year

      

Financial year:Financial Year refers to the period in which the income is earned.

Assessment year: Assessment year is the year immediately following the financial year   wherein the income of the Financial Year is assessed. Assessment year is the   year in which the income tax return is filed and therefore it is the year   next to the financial year.

   

Example

If you earn Rs. 5 Lakhs per annum from April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014, then it implies that Rs. 5 Lakhs was earned during the financial year, 2013-14. The Income tax return will be filed in the next year and therefore the assessment year will be 2014-15. Hence, financial year 2013-14 and assessment year, 2104-15 means the same thing. If you wish to pay income tax on the income earned during the financial year 2013-14, you need to specify it as Assessment Year, 2014-15.

What is Advance Tax and Self Assessment Tax?

      

Advance Tax: It is the tax paid by an individual in advance i.e. before the end of the financial year for which the income is earned.

       

Self Assessment Tax:

           

It refers to the Income tax   dues paid after the end of the financial year and are calculated and paid at   the time of filing of income tax return.

   

Example

If an individual A earns Rs. 10 Lakhs per annum as salary during the financial year, 2013-14, the individual is required to pay advance tax (on fulfillment of certain conditions) before March 31, 2014 (end of financial year). Suppose, while filing the return in July 2014, the individual determines that more amount of tax is to be paid, the extra tax will be called as Self Assessment Tax.

After successful payment of income tax online you can e-file income tax return in a simple and quick way with our easy step-by-step process.
A$A$A
I am giving here the process for e-payment of income tax. I am not aware of the complete process of offline payment in bank branches.

First go to the efiling website of Income Tax - e-Filing Home Page, Income Tax Department, Government of India

Create an account, if you are not already registered. You will need an email ID and a mobile number for account creation.

Once registered, login using your ID password.

On the left side you will find a box labelled Quick links. Select E-Pay Tax option from this box. You will be taken to NSDL website.

Click on CHALLAN NO./ITNS 280 on the page (slightly towards the bottom).

On top there will be an option to select Tax Applicable. Select (0021)INCOME-TAX (OTHER THAN COMPANIES).

Under Type of Payment select (300)SELF ASSESSMENT TAX.

Fill out the other details, select your bank and click proceed on the bottom of the page.

You will be taken to the payment gateway. Complete the payment by entering your user ID password, OTP etc.

When you return to the income tax website, you will see an acknowledgement. Save or take a printout of this acknowledgement. The details of this will be required while filing your return.

Hope that helped.

You can also read this official tutorial on online payment:

Page on incometaxindia.gov.in
A$A$A
According to me it is very typical job to do ONLINE INCOME TAX PAYMENT through Government’s Website. I have tried to fill it through govt. website. But it takes too much time to complete the process. So I choose an alternative way for the purpose of income tax payment i.e through other website such as File Income Tax Return Online in India, Tax E Filing, ITR. It is a nice website which makes our tax payment easy, quick & accurate in 3-4 simple steps.

Here’s is a step-by-step guide for the ONLINE INCOME TAX PAYMENT using government’s website:

Step 1:

Click on Link: https://onlineservices.tin.egov-...

Step 2:

Under applicable challan, Click on Challan no./ ITNS 280 – Payment of Income tax / Corporate tax

Step3:

Fill in your details in the Income Tax Challan-

·

If you are an individual , select (0021)INCOME-TAX (OTHER THAN COMPANIES) under tax applicable.

·

Fill in your PAN No. and Assessment Year (A.Y.) correctly . A.Y. is the next year to financial year(F.Y.) –

For,

F.Y. 2014-15 – 2015-16 is the A.Y.

F.Y. 2015-16 – 2016-17 is the A.Y.

F.Y. 2016-17 – 2017-18 is the A.Y.

·

Fill in your contact details : address, phone number and email address

·

Then, under the Type of Payment, you need to select the type based on your tax liability situation.

Out of all six sub-option, only three becomes applicable on you.

Choosing the correct applicable option for online income tax payment:

·

Select the bank from down-drop menu, through which you wish to make online tax payment.

Step4:

Then a confirmation window with a summary of your details comes. Recheck all your details & Click on “Submit to the Bank” button.

 Step5:

Then you would be redirected to Net Banking Page. Here, you need to enter your tax payment details like Tax, Surcharge, Interest etc.

However, you can leave surcharge, education cess, interest and penalty blank.

 Step6 :

Once the payment is cleared, Challan 280 will be generated. This is a receipt of payment of taxes by the tax department.

When you file your Income Tax Return then you need to enter the Challan Details like Amount, BSR Code and Challan Serial No, in prepaid taxes column.

You can verify the amount of taxes paid in your account from your Form 26 AS on income tax department’s website. Generally it takes 10 -15 days for data to be updated in 26 AS account.
A$A$A
Easy Way to File Income Tax Return

The IT department has made it necessary to file Income tax return once year. Whether you’re a govt employee or work in a private sector or own your own business, you’ll have to pay tax and income tax returns!

What is Income Tax Return?

ITR means Income Tax Returns. A person whose total income exceeds 2,50,000 annually will file for Income tax returns. Total income comes when all the sources of income are added up! These are Income from salary, house property, capital gains, business and profession or income from other sources.

You’ll pay the income tax and there is this requirement to file Income tax returns otherwise heavy penalty will be charged on a person.

Before you go to understand the ways to file Income Tax Return, you must understand what are Form 16 and Form 26AS !

FORM 16

It’s a certificate given by the employer to an employee, mentioning all his sources of income and how the tax was deducted on them. The employer will deduct the tax before giving you such certificate and the salary. It also works as a proof that the Income tax has been actually paid by the employee. Form 16 contains TAN and PAN of the employer, the brief version of how the salary was paid to the employee and the deductions made under the Income Tax act.

FORM 26AS

It refers to the Form 26 of Annual Tax Statement! It is a very important document for filing Income tax returns. Contains the period of the assessment year and the tax paid in advance by the person.

EASY WAY TO FILE YOUR ITR ONLINE :

From the past few years the filing is done online to make the process hassle free! Return must include all the incomes from SALARY, HOUSE PROPERTY, BUSINESS PROFESSION, CAPITALS GAIN AND INCOME FROM OTHER SOURCES.

~+~ First of all create your e- filing account and download the FORM 26AS. The Form will consist of the amount of TDS and your advance tax statement. The password of this form will be respective person’s birth date in ddmmyyyy format.

~+~ You’ll download and file the ITR form. The ITR-1 form will be filed by the by the person receiving salaries, income from one house property and income from other sources. ITR- 2 will be downloaded and filled by the person who is earning income from more than two house properties! ITR -4 Form will be downloaded and filled by the people trading in F&O contracts.

[Note: All the transactions that come under the F&O market are treated as NON- SPECULATIVE TRANSMISSIONS and they would be taxed as BUSINESS INCOME. Therefore, the income calculated shall be deemed to have computed after giving effect to depreciation under the Income Tax Act.]

~+~ You’ll fill all the details in the respective FORM – related to your PAN, DOB(Date of Birth), address, bank details etc. Oh and do calculate tax after it and pay if still any amount is payable!

~+~ Now, submit the ITR, name and assessment year in your E- Filling account ! Upload the XML file and finally submit it.

~+~ One copy will be sent to the Income Tax department and the other will be kept by the person.

We hope this information was useful to you. For more information you can contact LegalRaasta.
A$A$A
Everyone has explained the details of online it payment. I will try to summaries the same in short. Hope it helps. For filing online returns you can visit http://www.quicko.com

1. Go to   e-TAX Payment System

2. Select CHALLAN NO./ITNS 280

3. Select the option: (0021)INCOME-TAX (OTHER THAN COMPANIES)

4. Choose the appropriate option from the type of payment. ie. Advance tax,   self assessment tax, tax on regular assessent etc.

5. Fill the required fields and select the your bank through which you will   make the online payment & click on proceed.

6. Now on your banks payment page, fill in the tax amount, education cess, interest,   penalty as applicable and proceed to pay.

7. On successful payment of tax, you will be provided with the tax payers   counterfoil

Take care!
A$A$A
Step by Step Procedure for e-filing:

Visit TIN.

Click on the link for "e-payment: Pay Taxes Online".

Select the relevant challan i.e. ITNS 280, ITNS 281, ITNS 282 or ITNS 283, as applicable.

Enter its PAN/TAN as applicable. There will be an online check on the validity of the PAN /TAN entered.

If PAN/TAN is valid, the taxpayer will be allowed to fill up other challan details.

Tax Collected from Companies or Non Companies.

Assessment Year – Choose proper assessment year. Example, while making payment towards TDS/TCS of Financial year 2007-08, select assessment year 2016–17.

Valid TAN.

Address where city, state and pincode is compulsory.

Type of Payment i.e. in case of TDS 200 (TDS/TCS payable by Taxpayer)

Nature of Payment – Section.

Select your Bank Name.

Click on “Proceed” to submit data entered. Now, a confirmation screen will be displayed. If the taxpayer confirms the data entered in the challan, it will be re-directed to the net-banking site of your bank. If data needs editing, the user can do the same by clicking “Edit”.

In the Net banking site, the taxpayer should login to the net banking site with the user id/password provided by the bank for net banking purpose and enter relevant payment details like basic tax, surcharge, cess, interest, penalty, etc. Select the relevant bank account in case you have multiple accounts with internet facility for the same login.

On successful payment, a Challan counterfoil will be displayed containing CIN, payment details and bank name through which e-payment has been made. This counterfoil is proof of payment being made.

Please note that for each Challan, a separate payment has to be made.

On paying against all Challan and obtaining the CIN details, log out of the bank’s website.
A$A$A
According to Professional Tax Assessments,Process for payment of Income Tax online are listed here under:

Step-1. To pay charges on the web, login to Income Tax Website>Services>e-installment:Pay Taxes Online "e-pay charges" gave on the site.Give appropriate link of e-payment.

Step-2.Select the relevant challan i.e. ITNS 280, ITNS 281, ITNS 282, ITNS 283, ITNS 284 or Form 26 QB request installment (just for TDS on sale of property) as applicable.

Step-3.Enter PAN/TAN (as applicable) and other mandatory challan points of interest like accounting head under which payment is made,address of the tax payers and the bank through which payment is to be made and so on.

Step-4.On submission of information entered,a confirmation screen will be shown. In the event that PAN/TAN is valid according to the ITD PAN/TAN master,then the full name of the taxpayer according to the master will be shown on the confirmation screen.

Step-5.On confirmation of the information so entered,the taxpayer will be transferred to the net-banking site of the bank.

Step-6.The taxpayer needs to login to the net-banking account site with the user Id/Password gave by the bank to net-banking purpose and enter payment details at the bank site.

Step-7.On successful payment a challan counterfoil will be shown containing CIN,payment details and bank name through which e-payment has been made.This counterfoil is proof of payment being made.
A$A$A
Income Tax Dept create a very good Utility to file IT Return. If you find any difficulty to file ITR through Utility ,Financial Hospital provide support to help you to file ITR through Income Tax Utility free of cost. Visit www.financialhospital.in or call 022-42490600 to know more.
A$A$A
Every one here has given detail steps on making payment of self assessment tax.

Challan no 280 is correct challan.

Rest everything is self explanatory.

Be careful that you select correct Assessment year while making payment.

Step by step and Video guide can be viewed here.

How to Deposit Self Assessment Tax
A$A$A
The process is quite simple.Ask your CA to give you a Challan, it contains all the details of the assessee, the assessment year, break up of taxes,etc.

You can pay your tax by visiting the branch of the bank where you hold an account.If you have internet banking, nothing like it.Go to tin-nsdl.com, to the right side is a link which says e payment of taxes, select it, a new window will open up.Select the kind of tax you wish to pay, put in the required details and pay using your internet banking.

Best to ask your CA for help.

Normally CA's make the payment on your behalf if you give them a cheque for the amount.

Some charge for the service, some do it for free.

All d best!
A$A$A
i followed the whole procedure and paid income tax through net banking.

at the end i received counterfoil.

in my account it shows 'payment successful'.

but in my PAN account it is not showing that income tax has been paid.

how many days it will take to complete the procedure?

 and when should i check the status of income tax after the payment?
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What are the risks in becoming a payment facilitator?
A$A$A
There are many things that are attractive about becoming a payment facilitator with the biggest two:

Easy client onboarding

Revenue generation potential from margin between costs and sell rates to end users

What can go wrong?

Payment processing is risky. To illustrate -

Say a business offers Internet advertising services and accept payments via their website. If they deliver ads billed at $2,500 and the business is unhappy with results, what is the risk? A likely scenario would involve the business owner calling his/her credit card company to initiate a chargeback for the $2,500.

In this case, without documentation and a strong contract, the company’s merchant account provider will debit out the fee and the ad company forfeits the $2,500. They is turn deal with the business for payment collection.

Now, what happens if the service provider does not have the $2,500? The processor — and as a payment facilitator, this means you — must take steps (possible legal action) to recoup this money. While your contract with the service provider does afford legal recourse, if you don’t have the staff and resources to pursue action, you are at risk of losing the $2,500.

Now multiply that risk by 1,000 users for which you process payments. Given that they are all subject to customer chargebacks, you, as their payment facilitator, ultimately bear the burden of non-payments and financial responsibility.

Criminal risk

Let’s take the risk scenario a step further.

What if a sophisticated criminal group is unwittingly approved to use your app’s payment solution? Over a two-week period they process $50,000 — all with stolen credit cards — which you fund. While you will likely catch on as chargebacks surface and disable their account, recovery of initial chargeback payments that you are responsible for will be a stretch.

Compounding the problem may also be fines levied by MasterCard or Visa should these card companies determine that you were not doing proper due diligence or lacked comprehensive lax security measures.

Hybrid option

Although payment facilitation can be the right option for some SaaS providers, it’s important to understand the potential risks along with the benefits.

Given the severity of financial consequences, administrative requirements and inherent risks, a hybrid payment facilitation solution may be better suited for SaaS providers. This model shrinks expenses and reduces the risk burden associated with underwriting and compliance, while still offering revenue generation and easy enrollment capability.

So you do have the ability to reduce your risk exposure. The catch?

Your cost basis rises and your margins sink

So you definitely have risks. Your client base certainly has an impact on your exposure. You have to decide on the right balance of risk/reward that makes you money and helps acquire new clients but still lets you sleep nights.
A$A$A
There are three key types of risks associated with being a payment facilitator.

The first one is merchant fraud risk, described by Wayne. If you are a payment facilitator, you can mitigate this risk by monitoring merchant behavior and detecting uncommon patterns. Here is an article on the subject, describing merchant fraud protection tools in greater detail: Merchant Fraud Protection Tools - Paylosophy.

The second one is that merchant account applicants do not always provide accurate and credible information when applying for accounts. Moreover, some of them may represent high risk industries or illegal spheres of business. So, if you do not verify whether the prospective sub-merchant is on OFAC list or match list at the time of application, you might face serious problems and penalties during the next audit.

The third issue is as follows. Even if during application your prospective sub-merchant seems OK and you add his business to your portfolio, after some time the merchant might et involved in high-risk operations or fall into OFAC list. Sometimes you might be unable to terminate your partnership to get out of trouble, because you won’t have the respective legal mechanism to regulate such situations.

Due to the listed problems, there are three key approaches to implementation of payment facilitator model.

You can partner with a company that is already a PayFac (and provides all the respective services) and become a kind of an integrated platform. Examples of such companies are WePay and Zift.

You can integrate your existing gateway with systems, already providing respective services, allowing you to avoid the listed risks. For example, you can integrate with Subuno for risk monitoring and consumer fraud monitoring, with Agreement Express to obtain initial score of the sub-merchant during the initial underwriting process, and with Aperia for onging merchant fraud monitoring. Thus, you can migrate from inhouse gateway platform to inhouse payment facilitation platform.

If SaaS model soesn’t suit you and you need to implement some solution on-premises (or to implement a payment-as-service (PaaS) model) then you can use an existing platform, such as UniPay - Payment Gateway Software, and, potentially, customize it according to your specific business needs.
A$A$A
Compliance control and risk mitigation are the payment facilitator’s key pillars of success. Compliance control is not a one off activity, it requires end to end visibility on your sub-accounts and their transactional activity from onboarding to payout, with ongoing monitoring of the thresholds defined for each account’s specific profile, based on industry, type of services or products, size and location, just to name a few parameters. Risk mitigation also requires from the payment facilitator to keep track of each account’s activity and to react timely to any deviation from the average on the transaction and account levels. Being a payment facilitator can be extremely risky but with the right processes and systems in place it offers a highly profitable opportunity to the right service provider. Disclaimer: I work for Amaryllispay.com, a technology platform offering an end to end modular solution for payment facilitators and acquirers.
A$A$A
With the payment facilitator model there are a number of risks such as if you’re KYC process isn’t thorough you could bring on sub-merchant that is a money launderer or processing outside of the regulations. If you were to get caught, you could be fined and / or lose your right to process for good which would put you out of business and tarnish your companies brand. There’s also the possibility of one of your sub-merchants going out of business which then you as the PF are responsible for all refunds or chargebacks their customers may have.

It definitely varies by industry on the level of risk, but if you have a thorough process there is a lot of money to be made. With risks there’s also rewards that come with being a PF, complete control over your processing and the margins you set giving you unlimited revenue potential vs doing some sort of revenue split with your processor. Another big benefit is controlling the funds, many PF’s want control on how their sum-merchants are funded which this model does that providing you are following the regulations.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What are the best ways to increase a website's conversion rate honestly?
A$A$A
There are all sorts of tips and tricks like bigger buttons, good calls to action, conveying benefits over features, using testimonials, etc. These are all important but they ignore the underlying framework that must be considered first.

I am going to show you how to truly increase your conversion and traffic on a large scale by showing you the framework that you must consider first.

There's quite a bit here, so if you just want the cheat sheet emailed to you to reference later, I've authored an easy checklist called "7 Steps to a High Converting Marketing Funnel" that you may find useful.

Conversion happens when you sufficiently demonstrate to an individual that you have the answer to their problem and/or question.

Now if that sounds a little basic, stick with me here.

You must understand that every visitor to your website is there because they are looking for the answer or solution to an underlying problem/desire.

But the key is that our problems/desires vary widely in intensity and maturity. As a result, our readiness for a solution varies widely and falls on a broad spectrum.

Some of us are just realizing that we have a problem and it is barely beginning to agitate. Others have developed a keen awareness of the pain and are actively searching for the solution.

The Problem that Holds Your Conversion Rates Back

The problem that hold’s most companies' conversion rates back, is that they are only targeting the small subset of their traffic that is keenly aware of the pain and actively searching for the solution.

If all you are doing is trying to drive conversions on the signup form for your solution, you are most likely missing out on the majority of your visitors who are not yet aware of the need for your solution.

At any given point, your website is getting traffic from 3 segments that you really should care about.

0-18% are ready to buy. They are there on your site evaluating vendors.

11-29% are interested but not quite ready to buy yet. They are evaluating buying criteria.

79-89% are not looking to buy anything at all. They are there just searching for an answer to a question or problem.



The foundational key to getting high conversions is to be sure you are targeting each segment.

Ready to Buy Segment

The advice that you get from most sources will help you with the first segment (ready to buy). Good copy, clear calls to action, driving home your benefits, etc. will help a lot here. Understand your buyer personas with extreme clarity and listen to the advice you are getting here.

Interested But Not Ready To Buy

This segment is still evaluating buying criteria, not actual solutions. They don’t know what they need yet.

Remember what we said above? "Conversion happens when you can sufficiently demonstrate to an individual that you have the answer to their problem and/or question.”

This segment is trying to figure out what their buying criteria should be. So educate them on that. Provide a free opt-in that helps them to evaluate the solutions out there in the market. Create a checklist that they can use to evaluate their needs and potential choices. The beautiful thing about doing this is that it slants the criteria in your favor, but more importantly, you are helping them with their current needs.

Not Interested but Searching for Education

This is almost always the segment with the most untapped opportunity. You will find a lot of success providing guides and content that educates your visitors. Use your blog, organic search and social media platforms to catch prospects at this stage of interest.

Long-Tail Content

You will get the highest conversion rates when you are providing very specific answers to very specific questions. Read up on long-tail content and long-tail SEO because that is exactly what you are doing here. Write high quality, high value articles that answer real and pressing questions that your potential customers have.

Long-tail searches account for the large majority of online searches and have a vastly higher conversion rate. Even though it may seem attractive to go for the broader searches with higher traffic volume, your ROI on specific long-tail content with smaller search volume will be much higher. Once you build up your long-tail content, you will also end up owning a very valuable asset that gets high conversions and a lot of traffic.

Unique, Article-Specific Opt-ins

With each article you write, provide a related opt-in incentive to onboard them into your funnel. This can be a sort of upgrade to the content you wrote. Add a bonus checklist, a PDF version of the article with extra content, templates, extra examples, or really anything. Yes, this takes more time, but your conversions can be 10x higher than the general site-wide opt-ins. It is worth the time and effort.

It is also important to remember that this segment's awareness of their need for your solution is likely to be low at this point. Many companies just label them "bad leads" as a result.

But most of the time they aren't "bad leads", they just need a little love! A really good and sufficiently long marketing funnel must be in place to nourish them.

Most leads take approximately 12-24 months to buy. You will want to have an email sequence that nourishes them for the entire duration of this cycle, with intermittent calls to action that invite them to meet for a sales presentation,  or whatever you have in place to turn leads into opportunities.

Other Ways to Increase Conversions

Once you are properly targeting all 3 segments of traffic that visits your site, here are a few other ideas that will help you to optimize your conversion rates:

Start with high impact sections of your site. Don’t just start testing everything. Identify the areas that directly impact your desired conversions, like the order form, your call to action and headline.

Headline. Use one that conveys the unique benefits and identifies your target customer.

Call to action. Make sure it passes the 10’ rule (you can clearly see the call to action from 10’ away from your monitor. Make sure it conveys the desired benefit.

Popups. You don’t have to like them, but the results are clear. For many sites, they are very effective. Try using one that pops up after a certain duration on the site (like 30 seconds) or that pops up when the user is about to leave the site.

Create a sense of urgency. Notice how sites like Groupon have timers, hotel sites show limited rooms left at the current price, and Amazon gives a countdown to when the product will still ship that day.

Use social proof. One of the biggest advantages you can give yourself is proof. Show proof any way that you can. Before and after pictures, testimonials, videos, etc. Test the positioning of testimonials on the page.

Increase the clarity of your offering and website. Use a survey tool like Qualaroo or a chat window. Notice where you lose people on your website. Find out why. Increase clarity in those sections.

I've also authored a simple to follow cheat sheet guide called "7 Steps to a High Converting Marketing Funnel" that you may find useful.

It's free at: bit.do/funnelcheatsheet

I hope that helps you to increase your conversion rate! Let me know if you have any other questions. I'm happy to help.
A$A$A
Honestly, there are so many things you can do to increase conversion rates on your website. And frankly, a lot of useful advice has already been given. But let me share my take on what I believe helps boosting website’s conversions.

1. Working on your website design

 First things first, you need to get your website intact. Here's what you should consider doing:

optimize page load speed;

improve the design;

improve functionality;

offer pleasant mobile experience.

And last but not least, A/B test before making final decisions!

2. Working with your existing traffic

Since there already are visitors coming to your website, you make sure you are doing your best to convert them.

Capturing their attention before they leave using exit intent popups. Yes, I know what you are thinking, exit intent popups are annoying and their ruin user experience. But why do you think so many websites are still using them? Because they work.

Use exit intent popups to:

generate leads;

direct visitors to other pages;

remind about ongoing offer;

reduce cart/form abandonment.

Bringing visitor back to your website by sending web push notifications. When carefully personalized, this high engagement communication tool can significantly improve your conversions. And in some industries the average CTR can be high as 18%!

Use web push notifications to:

present personalized offers;

invite to events or remind about them;

inform about order status;

inform about new or restocked items;

promote your content;

remind about ongoing offers.

Offering live support. Incoming visitor might have a question is keeping him away from taking a plunge. Be there for him.

Live support helps to build personal connection with customers as well as gain their trust, and that is exactly what drives conversions.

So go ahead, get your website live chat. Make sure it's visible and easy to use. And most importantly, get your team ready to start building bridges with your customers.

3. Building trust in your online business

Online or offline, trust is something each business needs to build in order to be successful. It’s a process that takes time and quite a bit of work, but in long term it all pays off, as customers grow loyal to your brand and products/services.

Here are a few things you can do to start building trust in your business today:

collect product or service reviews and share them on your website;

be active on social media;

make sure it’s easy to get in touch with you;

don’t make promises you can’t keep;

personalize your marketing efforts;

clearly disclose such important information as privacy policy, terms and conditions, shipping and returns.

Hope it helps!
A$A$A
One of the best ways to increase website conversions is through the use of Onsite Retargeting, as basically it lets you double your opportunities for success at converting your visitors.

Onsite Retargeting works by monitoring the behavior of your visitors, and when their behavior indicates they are ready for some additional message, it is displayed to them, usually in the form of a popup overlay. Perhaps the best example of Onsite Retargeting is exit-intent technology. Exit intent technology works by monitoring the movement of the mouse, and if the system detects that a visitor is about to leave – typically moving towards the X close button of the window – your message will appear.

You can also monitor engagement, and act on it. For example you can show your message after someone has stayed on the same page for 30 seconds. This may indicate they have question. Or, when someone has scrolled to the bottom of the page. In this instance, they may have finished reading your article.

Check out this article of Digital Marketer in which they describe how they managed to increase their conversion rates by 30.22% in only 14 days and see for yourself what it is capable of when used smartly!

Generate Leads | How We Generated 2,689 Leads Using "On Site" Retargeting

Hope I could help, wishing you the best!
A$A$A
User generated content (UGC) isn’t just for social media; it can make a huge impact on your website, too. Utilizing UGC offers a wide variety of benefits that users are incredibly responsive to, and strategically placing it on your site can transform your website and improve engagement, sales conversions, and brand loyalty.

Most brands don’t realize that UGC is just as valuable on your site as it is on social media, let alone how to implement it. In this post, we’re going to look at why you should transform your site with UGC and 4 very specific techniques for how to do so.

Why Use UGC?

User Generated Content is one of the hottest topics in content marketing, and there’s an amazing reason for it. UGC has a ton of significant advantages for all brands with very little downside.

This content from Williams Martini Racing is a perfect example of how to share UGC on your site.

Some facts and statistics to keep in mind include:

84% of Millennials report that UGC on websites (not social media) has at least some influence on what they purchase

Brand engagement increases by 28% when users are exposed to both professional content from brands and UGC.

64% of customers search proactively for other user reviews before making a purchase

Utilizing UGC both on social media and on your site can increase engagement; users are excited to see content created by themselves or other users, and are more likely to engage with your content as they feel that your brand values them. Brands that place UGC on their sites are also more likely to sell more, as users are more likely to purchase an item if it has social proof of UGC backing it.

The psychology behind social proof is valid, with users (particularlyMillennials) valuing other users’ opinions via UGC much more than traditional marketing efforts. With UGC being almost always free to use, it provides fantastic results at very little to no cost for the brand.

4 Ways to Transform Your Site with UGC

There are a variety of different ways UGC can be used to transform your site. Different strategies work best for different brands and their audiences, so to make sure we’ve got strategies for everyone, we’ve got 4 different ways to transform your site with UGC, each of which are effective on their own or when used together with each other.

1. Feature UGC Images for Products

Most businesses use stock photos when displaying their products online, and they pay a pretty penny to have those photographs taken, edited, and uploaded. Instead of using stock photos, you could feature UGC images to promote your products.

Even if you still utilize the stock photos your team has taken, you can still feature UGC images on the product’s page. These make the product’s page more dynamic and instantly makes it more appealing to other users. It shows that not only did other users like the product enough to buy it (which is powerful social proof on its own), but that they liked it enough to create and share content about it.

In the example from Nescafe above, UGC content is displayed showing users interacting or designing content about the brand’s products. Even when they aren’t on the direct product page, using UGC to promote your products in other site locations still has a valuable impact.

2. Build a Community with UGC

Building a community around your brand can be highly profitable but extremely difficult to do. It’s much easier to build a community when you utilize UGC.

You can build a community by encouraging user engagement on your site, which can take a variety of different forms. One of my personal favorites is creating a community Q&A, where users can ask questions, and other users can answer them.

Users can ask specific questions about concerns for a product before they purchase, and get honest answers from other users vouching for the product. This is more persuasive than any salesperson could be.

Big name brands like Sephora, Amazon, and Sam’s Club currently uses this tactic. These community Q&A’s can be even more effective than reviews, because customers can state concerns about a purchase and be persuaded into completing the sale by other users.

3. Highlight User Reviews

User reviews are powerful testimonials that can help escalate your brand– and your profit– to new levels of success. You not only want to enable users to leave reviews, you want to encourage them to do so. You also want to place the reviews where users will notice them quickly, preferably without having to look for them.

Modcloth places user reviews immediately under the product, making them easy to find and access.

To encourage users to leave reviews for products or your brand, you can offer them discounts to do so. I’ve seen brands offer 5% or 10% off their next purchase, or a chance to win a gift card, as an incentive for users to leave more reviews on their site. Even thanking them for leaving the review is often motivation for users to continue to leave more reviews in the future, making them feel like their time and efforts were appreciated. On Buckwild’s website, for example, they feature UGC and give shout outs to specific users, thanking them for their reviews.

When in doubt, you can also refer users to social media reviews from your main website, still using UGC to increase brand loyalty and an increase in sales.

4. Place Social Prompts on Your Site

If you want to be able to use UGC on your site, you need to inspire users to create it and remind them that you value their content. Having sections, or even page, of your website dedicated to encouraging and sharing user generated content can increase the amount of engagement you’re getting, giving you more UGC to utilize later on in a fun, continuous cycle.

Have CTAs placed in these sections dedicated to UGC and social media, clearly encouraging users to “Share Your Creativity” across different platforms. Within these CTAs, include your branded hashtag and links to your different social media profiles, making it easier for users to connect with you and share their content. Crayola does all of this perfectly in the example above.

These social prompts should be featured amidst UGC if possible, and can transform your site and your social media engagement all in one.

Final Thoughts

User generated content is a powerful tool that all businesses really should be using at this point, at least in some form. UGC holds more power than traditional or professionally written content, even if it’s used in conjunction with professionally written blog posts or marketing campaigns. UGC offers so many benefits at very little cost, and with the 4 easy techniques above, it’s simple to implement on your site, too.

Hope this helps! Source: How To Transform Your Website with User Generated Content
A$A$A
There are general 'rule of thumb' practices to improve conversion rate and TaeWoo Kim has touched on this well. I would just like to say though, that you should be testing your site nonetheless. You can't simply rely on these 'rule of thumb' practices if you're serious about improving conversion rate. No matter the benchmark advice, you will have a different audience, different website structure and you're likely in a different industry. All this impacts on the way your users will behave on your site.
A$A$A
Few days ago, i wrote a great guide in Callmaker Blog around this topic.

CTA can really motivate people do a targeted action. Offer your prospects something valuable to reach higher conversion rates. For example: a discount or coupon, or free useful things like eBooks, a webinar and so on. Check out some working tricks that will make your CTA more effective in this guide:

2016 Ultimate Guide to Generate 5 Times More Phone Calls from Your Landing Page

If you want to try attracting calls and generate more leads, then take a look at an immediate callback in 25 seconds service.

You’ll have a callback form on your website and after a visitor enters a phone number - Callmaker will automatically call your sales rep, then it calls back to a customer and connects them.

It’s created special for lead generation and immediately boosts the conversion of the website in times. You can try it for free at callmaker.net
A$A$A
1.Website headlines done right

You headlines should be very clear about

what your provide

to whom you provide

the business value of your product?

you can also incorporate the most demanded and unique functionality or a pain point in your headlines.

Now, look through your website and read only headlines (without reading the text). Is it clear what your company is about, what you sell, to whom and how it helps your clientsmts?

2. Abslutely clear value proposition

Check if your content gives answers to these important questions people ask themselves before buying

What’s in it for me? Highlight the business value of your product or service – not only its features. What pain points can it resolve?

Why should I buy from you, guys? Why do you think you’re a trustworthy and reliable company? How are you different from similar products on the market? Is it a unique feature, better pricing, quick delivery, or amazing service ? You must excel over your competitors at least in one value aspect

Why do you expect me to buy now now? Be clear - what will users lose if they delay?

Also, check your above the fold give your friends 5 secs and ask them to describe what the website offers. If they did not understand it after several seconds, it’s too complex and you should clarify your value proposition.

3. Add a live chat

It is a powerful tools used to engage website visitors and lead them into your desired action.

44% of online visitors think the availability of a live chat on a website is a crucial factor during online shopping.

There are many live chat providers out there, but today the market already offers more advanced solutions that combine several conversion tools in one place: they can be used either as a live chat, or together with other customer communication channels, like email and socials, -everything in one software.

The two most prominent of such all-in-one platforms are Intercom (targets big companies) and HelpCrunch (the best fit for startups and SMBs).

To boost conversion with the live chat:

Reply to visitors’ questions quickly and remove any potential doubts about your product

Engage people proactively by setting up automated live chat messages: greet them on entering your website, offer help with choosing an optimal product or pricing plan, walk them through the installation or payment process, present personalized deals and discounts etc.

Use chat tools like typing insight, canned responses, file sharing etc to speed up your service and impress your customers

Collect your customers’ data and track every move they make on your site to further personalize your service.

TRY A LIVE CHAT FOR FREE

4. Get convincing testimonials

USe video testimonials. Nowadays the video is the most effective format for modern customers.

Don’t build a separate testimonials page. Sparse testimonials throughout your site ( more on product pages ). Fit them in the context and display them prominently.

Use testimonials from customers who were in a worse situation than an average client. If visitors see that even people in trouble could get the results, so can they.

Use testimonials with success numbers (e.g. increased sales twice, improved conversion by __%) or evaluating specific features or benefits of your product.

Add the full name, photo, company, and the person’s position to boost testimonial credibility.

Try to get endorsements from high-profile companies or an influencer.You may offer them your product for free and ask for their opinion. Add logos of your most prominent clients to all pages of your site in the above the fold.

5. Add video content

Explainer videos clearly convey your value proposition. Use demos to show your product in use.

For instance, a video for a shopping app Amazon Go

Product videos. 64% of consumers are more likely to buy after watching a product video.

Other video types may include company presentation, webinars, announcements, greetings and invitations, interviews with experts etc

Tips:

Short. People’s attention span is limited. The video duration should not exceed 2 mins and the recent trend is to add videos about 30 secs long (up to 1 min).

Dynamic. You need a strong, captivating content to grab your potential customers’ attention. Incorporate action, humor, wit, and inspiration.

Human. Show there’s a real person behind your brand and not only objects. Demonstrate how customers actually use your product or show your team working on it.

6………

7………….

8……………….

You can read my full article with more tips here
A$A$A
Basically many people will recommend you add the call to actions and change a color of your button. Websites are different, and so are their visitors. But there are things that are equally annoying for everyone. Therefore I think that you can start with simple points. Fix these things, improve user experience and get an increase in conversion on your website.

Aggressive pop-ups

Pop-ups are a great marketing invention aimed to boosting website conversions, however, after a few wrong turns they became so much aggressive and annoying, that people can’t stand seeing them on their screens.

Pop-ups on websites usually aim to advertise a product or service or to exchange the user’s email for some useful piece of content.

These advertisements became extremely aggressive when they started to “offend” the readers who refused to accept the offers.

Yes, the pop-ups are good for website conversions, but they aren’t user-friendly at all. Any negative emotion experienced by visitors to your website decreases their loyalty to your brand.

Low website speed and heavy pages

The web is getting faster every day, and the speed of website is now more crucial than ever. 40% of the users leave a website if it takes more than three seconds to load. And as the competition in web development continues to rise, this intolerance may even increase.

Website speed directly affects conversions and revenue. Walmart and Amazon, for example, reported 1% loss in revenue per 100 ms of site load delay. And the conversions of Walmart increased by 2% for every one second of load time improvement.

Moreover, the speed of the website is one of the important ranking factors. By improving it you will please both your clients and the search engine.

Preloaders

What can be more irritating than a slow website? A slow preloader, of course.

I don’t even imagine, where this idea came from. If the preloader was aimed at entertaining users while waiting - it completely failed. Preloaders are really boring. Should it indicate the load progress? Maybe, but it won’t make your potential customer wait longer. Seeing the load progress 7% - 9% - 12% over several seconds may actually convince visitors to leave the page immediately.

The preloader makes the website visitors focus on how slow the website is.

So, if you have a preloader on your website - remove it and check the website load speed. If you plan to add a preloader - forget this and pay more attention to the website load speed.

Hamburger menu

Hidden website navigation, particularly hamburger menus, became a trend in web development about two years ago. But nowadays it is clear that with hamburger menu the user experience goes down.

The reason is simple - this type of menu is less discoverable. Users often don’t notice the hidden navigation and simply pass by. If they click the hamburger icon, they do this significantly later compared to clicking a visible menu.

If you want to see your users click through the website and reach the content you prepared for them - think of alternatives for the hamburger menu. You can check some here, or ask our designer for some fresh and captivating ideas.

Complicated website navigation

Let’s assume, there is a website with a large number of pages that describe the company, its services, portfolio, testimonials, prices, special offers, etc. Every page contains a short text, perhaps some images and several links to other pages on the website. Every single page is reachable from the homepage via a multi-level drop down menu.

Everything seems to be logical. But a drop down menu makes the navigation through the website far more complicated for users who need more time to find the information they are interested in and sometimes they leave without ever finding it.

This approach is highly appreciated by the mobile users, who can acсess the necessary information just by scrolling. Moreover, the website owner has a certain control over the information flow perceived by the user.

Flash website

The most convincing argument against Flash is that it is no longer supported by the majority of modern browsers. So if you still want your visitors to have full impressions from your website - consider saying good bye to Flash.

The alternative is obvious - HTML5. It delivers better user experience and simplifies the development process. HTML5 is a popular technology nowadays, so finding a team of experienced developers is not an issue. Moreover, the active developer community is always ready to help with advice if needed.

So, if your website still runs Flash - it’s high time to update to HTML5.

Also you can find out more anti trends which can interfere with your user in this article - Anti-trends in web development
A$A$A
I would like to recommend you MaxTraffic – exit intent based platform that can increase your conversion rate up to 15%.

This platform tracks mouse movement and velocity and determines visitors’ intention to leave. Within a millisecond, it can display a targeted offer to a visitor. The platform provides more than 20 on-site targeting options, such as targeting by countries, an amount of page views, time on a website and much more.

The average results of MaxTraffic popup campaigns are impressive too. Not only  the platform helps to increase sales by up to 15%, it can double newsletter subscribe rate and increase follower count on social media as well.

Speaking of platform installation:

•    2-minute installation – insert JavaScript codes for visitor and conversion tracking into a website and you are ready to create the first campaign

•    It works with all e-commerce platforms and even has a special integration with Shopify

•    Several pricing plans allows to choose the most appropriate solution for your website



If you want to know more about the platform specifics – feel free to Contact helpful team members or visit our website! MaxTraffic - Turn your abandoning visitors into customers
A$A$A
17 Website Design Mistakes That’ll Ruin Your Conversion Rates

There are some web design mistakes that may or may not have impact on a website’s success, but there are others that act as conversion killers.

They spell the death knell for web traffic and make sure your website and its prospects go downhill unless something is done to get rid of these mistakes.

Many people think that conversion rate optimisation is mostly depended on content.

The above statement might be true, though at the same time you cannot afford to overlook the significance of design as the wrong web design elements can hold your site back from accomplishing great success.

You have less than a second to persuade a visitor to stay on your page.

In online businesses, creating trust is much harder than in real life as people can’t see your face. All that they can judge you by in that first second how well your website design is.

So, there is no doubt about that the design of your website has a huge impact on your conversion rate.

There are many website design mistakes that can hurt your conversion rates. In this post I will walk you through some of the most common mistakes people make while designing their website.

Website Design Mistake #1: An Obsolete Website Design

If your website is designed five years back, then it’s the time to upgrade your web design with the new design elements.

There is always some emerging technology that allows the designers to upgrade the design.

For example, you have thousands of visitors and if you are unable to keep them on your page then it’s all for nothing.

Trust me, nobody likes a page that seems like has not been updated in five years.

Believe it or not, there are so many old websites still live but they are no longer in operation.

When your visitors come to an old looking websites, most of them will click away as quickly as possible and moving on to your competitors.

Therefore, having a modern website is essential to keep your website conversion alive.

You have used a cheap, template website that looks dodgy. Failing to instill trust in the consumer or a potential lead is a real concern if your website is sending out the wrong message. Make sure your website has the following attributes that will instill more trust, loyalty and therefore sales.

above all make sure the website looks attractive. Nothing worse than going to an ugly website. You know the ones I am talking about. hard to use, terrible graphics, incredibly slow, totally outdated.

Include client testimonials for proof that you are worthwhile and good at what you do.

Any associations or organisations you belong to that add credibility should be added to the site.

You have to have a physical address and phone number. Nothing looks more suspect than having no direct numbers and only a PO Box.

Make sure your branding is consistent. Keep colours the same across your site. Too many different colours will just dilute your brand. Also, avoid the use of too many stock images. Yes they are easy to get, BUT people are so so over them.

Website Design Mistake #2: No Prominent "Call to Action" Button

Your website definitely has a goal. Whether you want your visitors to sign-up for a mailing list, make a purchase, request a quote, or simply call you, there has to be an objective and you have to make it clear to your visitors what your goal is.

In many cases, low conversion rates are a direct outcome of a call to action getting lost in the web design.

You need to ensure that your call to action button stands out on the page and makes it easy for the visitors to take the desired action.

Website Design Mistake #3: Slow Loading Time (The Silent Sales Page Killer)

Slow page load time kills your website conversions. Nobody wants to wait for a page on a website to load.

Web users expect a site to load in 2 seconds or less, and they tend to abandon a site that isn’t loaded within 3 seconds.

A delay of even one second can reduce your conversions considerably.

There are many reasons that contribute to a slow loading time. Among them few common reasons are outlined below:

Excessive use of Flash

Images are too big

Broken Links

Too many plugins in use

Bad Coding

You website loading speed should be as fast as a Ferrari. Here are some tips to reduce your page load time:

Optimise your images

Minimise HTTP requests

Utilise server side caching

Limit 301 redirects

You have decided to go the cheap route with your hosting company. What may seem like a great idea now is going to end up being a real pain in the ass. Nothing is worse than your web hosting either continuously going down or being ridiculously slow. Either way it’s a real conversion killer.

Spend the money on decent local hosting companies and you will have better site speeds and less downtimes. A slow website WILL AFFECT your Google rankings.

Website Design Mistake #4: Overuse of Colours

Colour can make or break your website conversion rates. Using too many colours can confuse your visitors.

Understanding the colour psychology is essential to choosing the right colour for your website. Take a look at some of the colours below and the associated feelings they typically convey:

Light Blue: cool, youthful, masculine

Dark Blue: trustworthy, stable, mature, calming

White: pure, honest, clean

Green: comforting, growth, organic, positive go,

Pink: youthful, warm, feminine

Gray: integrity, neutral, cool, mature

Purple: youthful, royal, contemporary,

Yellow: emotional, caution, positive

Red: excitement, hot, danger, stop, negative,

Orange: organic, emotional, positive

Black: heavy, serious, death

Brown: organic, unpretentious, wholesome

Gold: stable, elegant, conservative

Remember, colours play a crucial rule in web design. They help to highlight buttons, links and even enhance the visitors overall web experience.

Some of the golden rules are outlined below when selecting your website colours:

Keep the associated feelings for each colour in mind

Limit your palette to about 2 to 3 colours only.

When in doubt, choose ONE colour and then try different shade variations.

Website Design Mistake #5: Using Cheesy Stock Images

It’s no wonder that images are a fundamental part of website designs and modern readers are obsessed with visual media.

You’ve probably heard it many times that they’re worth a thousand words and visual content drives more engagement.

Yes you heard it right if the images are relevant, meaningful, high quality and authentic.

Using stock images undermines your credibility. Avoid using the cheesy stock photos as they can send the wrong message to your audience.

Every image you use in your website need to have a purpose like pushing the visitors toward the conversion goal.

Make sure you only use the meaningful, high quality, and relevant images where possible in your website.

Website Design Mistake #6: Poor Navigation

It doesn’t matter what you are selling and how much content, images, and video you have. You website navigation play an important role to convert the visitors into customers.

Navigation is the only way to reach your products or services after the visitors arriving on your website.

If you appropriately executed the right navigation tactics, your visitors should smoothly find their way towards the action you want them to take, such as to subscribe, or to buy.

If your website navigation is confusing, your audience will rapidly take the exit route and probably never come back to your website again.

Therefore, your navigation should be easy for the visitors to find what they are looking for.

Keep your visitors to the right track by providing noticeable "calls to action", ensuring links are easily visible and lead to the right pages, and keeping enough breathing space.

Website Design Mistake #7: Website Not Responsive

Human behavior has changed dramatically since mobile devices entered our lives. People use their smartphones or tablets on the go, in the bedroom, even in the bathroom.

The number of people using mobile devices has now well outstripped people on desktop computers, therefore you cannot afford to ignore the responsiveness if you don’t want to lose potential customers.

So, if your website is not responsive on all devices, then you will not be able will not be able to target those tablet and mobile users.

Responsive design is a must, not a nice “to have” anymore.

Website Design Mistake #8: Cluttered Design

Too much complexity or clutter makes it tough for the visitors to absorb your marketing message.

Excessive use of colours, images and styling makes your website cluttered.

This is why it is crucial to deliver only the most important or necessary information above the fold basically, anything essential for making a decision or taking action, without any clutter.

As a rule of thumb, don’t give everything at once to your visitors. Instead, encourage them to browse on your site to learn more about you before trying to sell to them right away.

This will not only help them get to know your brand but also they will be more likely to convert as they already spent so much time on your site.

Your design is just confusing. This is a real problem as the consumer is going to make up their mind whether they are going to buy from you within a few seconds.

Don’t add to their indecision by making your site complicated. Keep your core unique selling point as simple as possible and make sure the user gets this message when they first land on your home page.

Like a retail shop if the passing consumer does not like what they see they will buy elsewhere. Simple as that. There is an issue with this. Choosing the right website design agency that knows how to design, based on your market is not so easy. Make sure you view their online portfolio of website work and see if its the right fit.

Website Design Mistake #9: Using Too Many Plugins

Plugins helps a website to introduce new features or add new design to the website.

Web designers can get so many free plugins from the internet to use in website.

But, using too many plugins can increase your site loading time.

We’ve already talked about the impact of slow loading. Too many plugins won’t benefit you either.

Certainly, if the plugins are really required to make your site functional then only use them.

Sometimes people try to use different things, just because they can into their website, not because they really need to.

Make sure you don’t use any extraneous stuff unless you absolutely need it to keep your page loading times fast.

Website Design Mistake #10: Choice Overload

Choice overload leads to choice paralysis. If your visitors can’t make the decision, they won’t take your desired action.

There are many side-effects that you will experience when your visitors face the dreaded experience of choice overload. Some of the common effects are given below:

Customers buy less

Customers put less thought into choice

Less satisfaction

People who are given limited in options will be more to buy than those having too much choice.

Therefore, reduce the number of choices your visitors encounter and remove the irrelevant or unnecessary links, ads if you want your visitors to take your desired action.

Website Design Mistake #11: Adding Too Many Banners

An over aggressive web design with large images and lots of banners makes the website appear as one big advertisement platform, which is a major turnoff for visitors and a clear obstacle for acquiring a high conversion rate.

Even though banners are great revenue generator, they could be performing negatively when it comes to conversion.

A simple redesign could accomplish the best conversion rates. Here are the few things you can apply to get over with this issue.

Limiting the number of banners on a page

Reducing the prominence and size of the banners

Highlighting relevant content and images

Website Design Mistake #12: Unreadable Copy

As much as images and videos control modern content, copy or text still play a huge role in persuading visitors to make a purchase.

I have witnessed so many websites with weirdly-shaped fonts and large text blocks that are hard to read.

While we are all a fan of customised and beautiful fonts, too much of a good thing is also bad.

Here’s how you fix it:

Choose legible font styles

Emphasise important information with bold

Write shorter sentences

Align text to left, not centre

Your website content is far too long. Rambling pages of copy are just going to bore the pants off the reader. It's the same way you feel when a person goes on and on about a topic.

You may like them a hell of a lot, but after a while you just switch off. So be on topic with your copy BUT never write just for the sake of it. Snappy, sales on topic copy is what works best for time poor consumers.

You write your own copy. Nothing is worse than reading content that has been put together unprofessionally. Yes, you might have been great at English in school, but writing effective web copy for your consumer base is an entirely different matter.

Make sure that you speak to your web developer about getting a copywriter to at least write the content for your main landing pages. Those pages that you want visitors to land on and buy from. Better web copy means higher conversion rates and guess what… more money for you.

Website Design Mistake #13: Not Having a Search Box

Websites that fail to include the search box are losing some potential customers those who are looking for specific information or items.

They don’t want to use your carefully executed navigational links anymore because we are all busy and don’t have time to search manually.

Trust me, your visitors aren’t even a little bit patient.

Eventually, they will leave the page.

Therefore, enable the search box option in your website to find the targeted items or information in no time. It works better if you have a large inventory.

Website Design Mistake # 14: Search Engines?

You haven't optimised your website for the search engines. This is a real killer and one that many companies and businesses fail to do. They are either too lazy, do not know about it, or end up getting mixed up with a really bad SEO company.

This is a huge area and one that all businesses should be very concerned about. After all, why even bother getting your website all beautifully designed with pretty pictures and great copy if it won't appeal to new customers?

Why? Because when they type in your product or service offering guess what happens? They find your competitors and not you. A real tragedy.

Website Design Mistake # 15: No Email collection

You are not collecting the names and email addresses of people who have been to your website and used this to market to them.

Offer incentives for them to sign up and leave their details. You will find that your database will grow quickly and this is a great marketing opportunity NOT TO BE MISSED. Make sure you do follow through with your emailing campaigns.

Website Design Mistake # 16: No Sales Funnel

Where is your sales funnel? Where do consumers go to buy? Many websites look great but lack one thing - the buying process. How to they pick and buy from you without getting lost on your site?

How do they make an inquiry and how do they know your received it when they sent it?

These questions need to be addressed so that once there is a customer on your site, they find it super easy to make a purchase. A great looking website that is not making you money is a waste of time.

Here are a few tips that will help improve your sales process:

Make sure there are not too many fields to complete on your order forms.

Give them the opportunity of money back or free trials of the product – this will improve the trust factor by miles.

Again, as above, add testimonials – if you can get video ones, even better!

Website Design Mistake #17: Important Information Below the Page Fold

The page fold is the single most important aspect of the page layout that every designer must take into consideration while designing a website. Visitors decide whether a website is worth their time or not in as little as a few seconds.

This means you have very little time to make an impression on your visitors, and this is where the importance of the page fold enters the picture. The golden rule of page fold is simple – all important information must be above the fold.

If your important call-to-action buttons or website messages are below the fold, the chances that your visitors will come across the information they are looking for are slim; very few of them will scroll down to check out the information below the fold the very first time they are visiting your site. If this happens, say goodbye to any chance of achieving an acceptable conversion ratio.

Bonus Tip: Click on everything... Rookie mistake! (Test everything on your site to make sure everything works!)

The Bottom Line:

If your website has more than a few of the above 17 website design mistakes, perhaps it’s time to consider a new design.

Use this blogpost as a checklist of website design mistakes to fix now and avoid in future.

Keep in mind that even the simplest mistakes can ruin your conversions right off the bat.

Avoid these 17 mistakes, and you will be well on course for creating a website that attracts plenty of traffic and exhibits a good conversion ratio.

Did I leave anything out? Tell me below what you think about these tips.

p.s. Here's the link I promised you over on my podcast episode #24 on how to laugh in the face of those shitty reviews, or any other online nastiness: (Will Ferrell's attitude to this should cheer you up!)

If you have any more ideas or points to share, feel free to do so in the comments section below!

That’s it. Have a great week and I’ll be back with you again soon.

Remember to subscribe to my podcast and check out the [FREE] AdWords Video Training Series.

Get Instant Access Here >>

7 Absolutely Killer Tips For Google AdWords & Why They Crush The Competition

How to Build an Email List FAST - 7 Simple Methods You Can Use for FREE

Download The eBook Now:

Download here >>

Phil Adair

Hot Clicks Pay-Per-Click Online Marketing

Suite 12, 5th Floor, Dymocks Building

428 George Street, Sydney 2000, NSW, Australia

W: hotclicks.com.au

I’m a huge fan of connecting on social media. If you’re on these social networks, then let’s follow each other:

Twitter

Google+

Facebook

YouTube
A$A$A
Honestly? I can tell you honestly that at the moment we are sure of two things:

You have a website

It's not perfect

Because it's not perfect, it's losing customers and therefore your conversion rates are plummeting. Uh-oh. The biggest mistake a website owner can make is assuming that the status quo of their website is OK and they do not need to change a single thing.

That's the stupidest thing one can think.

So, it's not perfect, we got that established. We need to improve the website and increase the conversion rates. How to do that?

There is A/B testing[1] - once you get to know it better, you'll be eager to start a test. You will start reading articles about CRO and get some ideas for the test - change the colour of your CTAs, start using material design, optimize the labels, tons of them.

The cold truth is that an idea for a test pulled out of your a... out of an article is an absolute waste of time. There are too many variables, which are unique to your website that findings coming from one website won't be suitable for yours.

Is A/B testing bad, then? No, absolutely not - you only need to be smart about coming up with your hypotheses.

You can get data out of Google Analytics - bounce rates on certain webpages, traffic drops, exit rates surges and so on - these give you a general idea that something bad is happening on your website.

It's getting trickier once you have to figure out what exactly. Usually, it takes an expert with experience to spot the possible problems. You can hire one - it's costly, but effective. If your budget is lower, then I have one possible solution - visual analytics.

The company I work at, UsabilityTools, bridges that gap between a specialist and a website owner.

We offer a low-cost tool that once installed on your webpage or web app tracks every mouse movement, every click, scroll, tap, swipe - all events coming from a user during their browsing.

After watching a recording you will quickly see that, for example, people are not interested in your logo, but in the carousel with a bold CTA. This will give you an idea - it means the CTA is working and we need to capitalize on it. Let's begin an A/B test!

The recordings often show the most baffling examples - we had a client[2] that was wondering why people are leaving their registration page. After setting up our tool they watched a couple of recordings and saw something unusual: users during registering were clicking on a button that refreshed the registration page.

They did that because they thought it would take them to the next step. Instead, it refreshed the page and removed all the info they entered.

Frustrated, they quit the page. Our client quickly removed the button and saw a 40% increase in their conversions. Simple change, powerful results.

So, who knows? Maybe there is a button on your webpage that is forcing people away? There is nothing better in increasing conversion rates than looking at the website through your users' eyes. Better start watching recordings and see for yourself. If you are interested, there is a 14-day trial.

Footnotes

[1] Optimizely: Make every experience count

[2] GetBadges - Removing a Button Increased Conversions by 40% – UsabilityTools.com Blog
A$A$A
Hopefully you have many optimization weapons in your arsenal: digital analytics, A/B testing, click mapping, user testing, etc.

One you may not have thought of (and hence your competitors might not be aware of): eye-tracking and visual engagement analytics.

When you hear the words ‘eye-tracking’ or ‘visual engagement analytics’ you may think these techniques are too expensive or complicated for you to use. With increasingly scalable technology and a decent game plan, however, that’s simply not true.

Adding eye-tracking into your arsenal will increase your understanding of user behavior as well as the usability of your site, and it will arm with your enough (valuable) test hypotheses to last you for a long time.

What is Visual Engagement Analysis

First off, let’s define visual engagement analysis for the sake of this article.

It’s essentially a visual display of the user experience at a scale large enough to infer trends and insights.

You’re already familiar with a limited form of visual engagement analysis in the form of aheat mapping tool.

Image Source

While there are many types of visual engagement analysis you can use, eye-tracking offers the most accurate picture of how users actually interact with your site.

Hover maps – heat maps that analyze where users hover their mouse on a page – were actually modeled after the classical usability testing technique known as eye-tracking (following and measuring the gaze of the user).

In the old days, eye-tracking could only be done in a lab, with very expensive equipment and a large time allotment. Essentially, it was resource-heavy and reserved only for the largest companies with the biggest budgets.

Image Source

That’s why mouse tracking tools introduced hover maps – as a way to democratize this information.

Problem is, the accuracy of mouse cursor tracking is always questionable. People might be looking at stuff that they don’t hover over. They may also be hovering over things that gets very little attention – therefore the heatmap would be inaccurate. Maybe it’s accurate, maybe it’s not. How do you know? You don’t.

In 2010, Dr Anne Aula, Senior User Experience Researcher at Google, gave a presentation where she presented some disappointing findings about mouse tracking:

Only 6% of people showed some vertical correlation between mouse movement and eye tracking

19% of people showed some horizontal correlation between mouse movement and eye tracking

10% hovered over a link and then continued to read around the page looking at other things.

So until recently you had two choices: affordable but questionable data or accurate but expensive data.

Now, however, there are a myriad of solutions for remote eye-tracking (including my company, Sticky)

Why Visual Engagement is Awesome

A/B testing is great, but to do it right you need valid and actionable insights. There’s nothing better than seeing specifically how your users are interacting with your sites (and even quantifying that behavior)

With visual analytics, you won’t ever run out of ‘testing ideas.’

Visual analytics measure the user’s experience directly, allowing you to understand both what drives your successes and failures as well as the specific points to address in order to increase performance.

With a combination of both tools, we’ve seen people increase click-through rates 6x, increase conversions, and increase the ROI on marketing spending by 25%.

A/B Testing + Visual Engagement Analytics

A/B testing shows graphs and statistics, mostly at the aggregate level, but it doesn’t show you how users experience your page.

That’s a gap visual engagement analysis can fill.

For instance, here is an A/B test where you can infer the ‘winner’ or the ‘loser’ of a test…

A/B testing is awesome, and it’s the only real way to empirically verify performance of specific elements while isolating variables like time.

But check out the image below. It comes from a study we ran on ITLALAW’shomepage. The gaze path is presented as a heatmap, ‘SeenMap,’ which shows exactly where and in what order the user looks at the site.

This kind of data gives you the insight to run better A/B tests and win more often (no one likes inconclusive tests).

In the example above, for instance, we noticed that the green circle, InfoTech Law Advocates’s call to action received too little attention. The purple circle received more attention than it deserved, considering that none of its elements are clickable.

The easy implication there is that we could try to switch the content on these two page areas and to run A/B tests on those iterations.

To maximize the efficiency of your testing program, you need user insights.

Like many companies, YoDerm was using A/B Testing to measure the effects of different coupons or offers on their landing page.

However, Ryan Hambley, the VP of Product, noticed something troubling with the tests he was running. “There was often no clear winner,” he said. This is, of course, a common experience (data tends to show that 1/7 tests are winners). Nothing slows the flow of a testing program like a series of inconclusive test results.

YoDerm’s developers and designers could sit in a meeting room and guess how people interacted with the site, and then develop test ideas from there. But you already know that’s no approach for a smart optimizer.

That’s where they brought in eye-tracking and visual engagement. To attempt to infer some user behavior trends, and develop tests based on how their users were actually interacting with the site.

How Visual Engagement Analysis Helps

Visual engagement measures where people look and how they feel when they look at each element of your site (yep, it’s possible to measure emotions as well – a benefit not included in most heat mapping tools).

You can draw so many insights from visual engagement:

If people get stuck on an image or text, you’ll know that they’re most likely confused and that the ideas should be simplified.

If they’re not looking where you want them to look, these areas should be made more prominent. This knowledge will help you focus your next design iterations.

You can see the raw numbers (like how long people gaze at an element) as well as visual the data (which makes for incredibly effective presentations to your team and executives, by the way).

With emotional engagement measurements, you’ll be able to tell how users feel in real-time while they interact with your site. An algorithm measures facial expressions and correlates different expressions to different emotional responses.

The conclusions you can draw with this data (combined with the heat maps) are endless. For instance, stronger positive emotional responses correlate to a greater likelihood that people share content.

How it Works

Multiple state-of-the-art computer vision tracking algorithms communicate to identify facial expressions and eye movements in 3D, allowing for the most accurate tracking possible, even when people move, lighting changes or the face is partially obstructed.

Eye-tracking data are filtered for quality, aggregated with survey and emotion data, and then made available in the platform’s results page and through the API.

Sticky presents the eye-tracking results in the form of a heatmap.

How to Run a Visual Engagement Study

Running a visual engagement study isn’t as hard as it sounds. First you need to pick a URL to study (perhaps you want to study your homepage). Then you need to choose your study pool and specify different options for Sticky’s crowd of participants. Options include things like age, gender, and country.

Then you need to mark “Areas of Interest” (AOI) on your page.

You mark these AOIs by moving rectangles over specific page areas. See below:

Move the rectangles at the top of the page into their appropriate position (deleting any that don’t apply to your page). These will be the areas measured for Seen, Read, and the amount of time on the area. See below for an example of the page with AOIs marked.

The participants then interact with your web page as they would normally, and their eye movements are measured. Participant instructions can vary on request, but the standard is “Please interact with this web page as you normally would.”

Analyzing Norwegian Airlines’ Visual Engagement

Testing Norwegian Airlines’ site through Sticky’s platform, we noticed some improvements were needed.

Here’s the old site:

The site isn’t bad. It has a good layout and a pretty centralized Call to Action. The problem, however, is that only 71% of people see the Call to Action, it takes them 2.8 seconds to see it, and they only look at it for 0.4 seconds. Check out the SeenMap below:

According to this map, there’s too much going on.

The sleeping man in the bottom left, the large and boldfaced numbers in the bottom right – too many things compete for the user’s attention, which starts at number one and is zigzagged along the page rapidly.

People’s attention is never fixed for long.

The improved version includes smaller images and a more prominent call to action. See the updated site below:

This version is a lot sleeker, with less vying for attention. Check out the SeenMap below to understand exactly how the user sees it:

The CTA is now the main focus – the first thing seen.

Now 78% of people see it after only 1.4 seconds and look at it for 0.8 seconds – more people seeing it for twice as long with half the time spent looking for it.

Increasing these metrics is merely correlational with increasing conversion rate. Obviously there’s not a 1:1 relationship between the values. But if you increase the visual attention to an element, there’s a very strong chance you’ll increase the amount of people taking that action.

How much will you increase your chances, exactly? Well, according to a recent study by IDG, “increasing the amount of visual attention on a brand by just 1 second of viewing time can raise the odds of purchase by 44% to 550%.”

People’s attention dictates what they do, so capturing more of their attention in your direction necessarily means you increase the chances they’ll act in that direction as well.

Conclusion: Tying it All Together

Optimizing is never done. There is always more you can do to improve your site.

Visual engagement helps you define the problem, the cause of the problem, and potential sources for variation in order to help you achieve your goal with A/B testing. Combining this with other forms of digital analytics (such as Google Analytics, Amplitude, Heap) and other forms of qualitative data (such as surveys and user testing) can keep your churning out win after win.

Visual engagement studies lower the cost of A/B testing by focusing your design changes on the areas that need it most, making the live-traffic split experiments more effective. They also help communication with your team and executives, and they help you see the space between the numbers on A/B tests – the way that users are really interacting.

Overall, integrating eye-tracking and visual engagement research into your optimization process gives you an edge that most people aren’t even considering yet.

Run your site here for free to see for yourself how useful this information can be.

Note: This answer was originally published on ConversionXL
A$A$A
I will not focus on some of the “hygiene” related suggestions. For example, does your landing page have a clear call to action. Does it have too much content that can overwhelm your customers? Does your webpage load quickly and properly across all devices. Once you have taken care of the basic optimizations, here are some other things to try:

Personalize the content based upon search keyword: There is a wealth of information available in a user’s search keywords ,and you should make every effort to personalize the landing page based upon the search queries. Imagine you run an eCommerce website that sells vacation packages. If someone searches for “Luxury family friendly hotels in Hawaii” in Google and visits your website, you know that this customer is a “premium” customer who probably travels with a family and has interest in tropical vacations. Your entire website content including homepage could be personalized based upon these attributes. Of course you can't do this for thousands of keywords that bring customers to your website, but you can start building “personas” based upon your top search queries and make sure that your website experience speaks directly to that persona. You can even save this “contextual” information about your customers in your database so when you reach out to them in future, you can speak the language they are more likely to respond to. Instead of sending a one size fits all newsletter about “Top 10 Vacation ideas”, you could send them an email about “Top Luxury All Inclusive Resorts” because they came to your website with that search keyword.

Change the Context based upon referring site: Your customer’s referring website is also extremely important in maximizing conversions. Imagine you run an eCommerce site, and some of your customers come from Display Advertising, while some other customers come from affiliate channels such as slickdeals.com. If your customers came from an affiliate channel such as slickdeals.com, it is highly likely that the customer is interested in deals and discounts. So when they visit your product listing pages, you could automatically sort the products by “Highest Discount first”, instead of sorting the products by “New Arrivals” for example. However, if another set of customers came from display advertising, where you are targeting more “affluent” customers, you could sort the product listings by “New Arrivals” to show off your current season assortment. Again, its about building personas for your customers and showing the most relevant content that can convert them to buyers.

Keep a close eye on Bounce Rate: If you have a high bounce rate, it means there is disconnect between your landing page and your customer expectations. It could be because your landing page is not convincing enough, or the pricing information is not easily available, or the products are out of stock. Taking steps to reduce your bounce rate can directly improve the relevance of your landing page, and therefore, can improve the conversions. While there is no single industry benchmark, if your bounce rate is more than 40%, then you likely have opportunities to address.

Defer asking information from your customers: If you force your customers to provide too much information too early, they would leave. If you ask them unnecessary information, they will likely leave. If you are collecting Birthday, Gender, or any other information that has nothing to do with your customer’s order, please do not ask it before they have placed the order. You can have a simple form, immediately after your Thank you page, to collect additional information. Customers would be happy to share some more information if they had a good experience in placing the order. But if you ask too much of that information upfront and make the checkout flow more cumbersome, they might get too overwhelmed and leave.

Make sure there is a direct correlation between your Ads and Landing page: This may sound very basic, but I can’t emphasize the important of this point enough. You must review every single Search Ad, and every single Display Ad for your business, and then click on the landing page for that Ad. Then put yourself in the customer’s shoes. Does the landing page deliver on the promise that was made in the Ad? Imagine your customer has 40 seconds to decide whether or not its worth staying on your website. Does the landing page convey enough relevant information within 40 seconds, to convince the customer to stay and explore your website? Your website may have great products at the most competitive prices but if the landing page talks about apples when your ad is promising oranges, your customers will leave.

Conversion optimization is an ongoing journey, and you will never reach the destination. The key is to leverage as much data as possible from sources such as Google Analytics, and continue to optimize your website experience so that it speaks directly to the customer who came to your website. All customers are different and there is no reason why your website or your landing page have to speak the same language to every customer.
A$A$A
There are no thumb rules for increasing conversion rate however, Content and UI plays an important role.

You need to keep trying and testing different content over the time considering the user persona and geography. Languages are spoken in different ways across the world, say people in UK believe in formal language, while Americans speak casually and keep it short, while Indians put a lot of details and like to use proper grammar. Understanding this while writing a content helps to increase conversion rates.

For UI, again you must believe in creating a design that your users necessarily love. It has to be a combination of uncluttered design with engaging elements while ensuring a great performance.

Here are the 20 A/B testing tips to increase conversion rate.
A$A$A
Attaching live chat to websites is a proven way to enhance conversion rate. Yet, it’s still widely underestimated.

Why is that? Probably due to the erroneous belief that live chats are capable only to provide a real-time customer support by chatting with customers. Meanwhile, the best live chat software providers (like LiveChat, I am with) have equipped their products with a set of e-commerce friendly features able to boost conversion rate significantly and enhance online sales.

But how exactly can live chats foster the enhancement of online conversion?

Some live chats are equipped with an automated chat invitations feature, enabling you to proactively engage into conversations with website visitors and close sales more efficiently. Tools like LiveChat can issue automatic chat invitations based on certain actions visitors take on your website. The feature is fully customizable so you can establish specific conditions, the fulfillment of which will trigger functionality and engage your website visitors into chatting.

Below you can find some of the invitation triggers available (that’s not all of them!) . You can combine them with one another or just use a single one to engage your website visitors into chats.

To optimize the efficiency of chat invitations, you should set up the combination of triggers precisely, depending on what target you want to achieve. Setting up triggers for automated chat invitations is super easy, but you can always ask LiveChat Support Heroes for help or advice. They’re available 24/7/365, so feel free to reach out to them anytime!

Examples of triggers’ settlement based on targets:

Target: Increasing conversion/Getting more sales:

chat with customers spending too much time (time trigger) in the checkout process (URL of the checkout pages) to help them place the order.

target customers depending on their cart value (custom params or API-based trigger).

Target: confused customers:

Error on the page (like 404 error or issues with completing the forms) - offer help.

Customer stuck on a page for too long (time trigger).

Target: Deals and discounts for hesitating customers

Offer deals through chat for people spending a long time on your website (time trigger + number of pages viewed).

Consider offering something for people from particular locations (location trigger).

Automated chat invitation feature is not the only e-commerce friendly functionality, premium live chats are equipped with, though. They can also:

Provide you with data about visitors referral paths and track their activity of your website in real time. Knowing what certain people are checking on your website, you can engage them into chats manually, offer your support more accurately and convert them much more efficiently.

Work as a comprehensive help desk thanks to a built-in ticketing system. With your online availability off it gathers customers queries and records them as tickets. All you have to do is to answer them once back online.

Provide an invaluable business insight from encounters with customers thanks to reports and analytics platform embedded. You’ll be able to analyze it easily and draw conclusions to adjust your online activity to customers’ expectations.

Gather customer feedback straight away via pre- and post-chat surveys, available directly in a chat window.

gather leads efficiently. Actually, many of our customers (like PlasticPrinters.com) saved thousands of dollars, they had used to spend on paid leads before attaching LiveChat onto their websites. There are 4 ways our software can be used to generate leads, all of which are explained in details on our blog.

Is equipping your tools like LiveChat worth a try? You have to ask yourself that. Note however, that according to Forrester’s research a significant amount of customers shopping online look for live person’s help:

“44% of online consumers say that having questions answered by a live person while in the middle of an online purchase is one of the most important features a Web site can offer.”

Can you afford not to take advantage of it? I doubt that.

You can give LiveChat a try with no strings attached and check its usability for your business, by submitting for a 30-days, free trial. Of course, no credit card info is required.
A$A$A
There are a number of things you can do without hiring an expert. I’ll outline these in the first part of this answer.

First, assess where you’re at, compared to competitors in your industry. For example, the average Ecommerce conversion rate is 2%.

If you’re starting around (or below) the average level for your industry, make sure you’ve implemented the following 7 conversion fundamentals. Some of these involve contracting out to developers or designers, but it’s for small, specific jobs, so it won’t cost much, in time or in money.

The fundamentals:

There are reviews or testimonials on your site. You should include reviews and testimonials to act as social proof. Customers can see others have enjoyed your product, so they’re more likely to buy. Google’s search algorithm also ranks pages higher if they have new content, and reviews are a good way to generate that content.

Your web design is professional and engaging. This speaks for itself. Customers don’t trust sites if they don’t look appealing. If your design looks like a throwback to the 90s, customers will doubt that you’re at the cutting edge in your industry.

Your site has a mobile version. Since October 2016, more people browse the internet on mobile devices than desktop, so you need a site optimised for mobile.

Your site performs well on all browsers. Different browsers behave differently when it comes to site layout, and and some may not display as expected. Internet Explorer is the most common culprit. Use Google Analytics to look for high bounce rates on certain browsers. This is a sign that users aren’t able to interact properly with your site.

You allow customers to buy without having to sign up. Always provide a guest checkout option so they don’t have to sign up. Some people won’t buy if they have to go through the hassle of a long signup form. You can always include the signup prompt in the “thank you” page after they have bought - that way, you’re not adding friction to the buying process.

Eliminate technical errors on your site preventing people from buying. Test all your links, navigation and make sure the checkout process works. Use Google Analytics to check for a bottleneck in the website that people aren’t getting past. Then, get a developer to debug.

Make your site fast. People expect sites to load in 3 seconds. Put your site through Google Pagespeed Insights. You’ll get a list of recommendations that you can implement. The most common speed bottleneck for ecommerce is images, since you’ll have lots of products to show. Compress your images, then resize them to the dimensions they’ll be shown on your site.

You can read more about these fundamentals, and how to tell which ones are affecting your store, by looking at 7 Conversion Optimisations to Implement Right Away.

After you’ve implemented these fundamentals, it’s time to move on to a more data driven approach.

The following methods are more involved, but their necessary to reach higher levels of conversions.

There are whole companies specialising in these processes (disclaimer: I own one) but you should be informed. This way, you can sort good conversion companies from bad ones when picking one.

Analysing the Data

You can track your conversion rate using Google Analytics. As an optimiser, you’ll spend a lot of time on Analytics, so it pays to get familiar with it.

There are several areas of a site that are important to optimise:

Your touch points. These are the gateways into your site from other websites. The first of these is your listing on the Google results page, which can be optimised by changing your title and description. I go into more detail about how the top companies do this here. Other examples of touch points are paid ads you take out, and social media posts that link to your site.

Your landing pages. These are the pages visitors see first when they land on your site. You can identify them using Google Analytics - they’ll be the most high volume pages. If your site has a high bounce rate, lots of visitors are leaving after seeing your landing page. That tell you that you should tweak your landing pages first.

Your product pages. This speaks for itself - you want to entice people to buy. If you’re an ecommerce site, tweak your product page by changing the headline, copy and images to see which works best, tracking your results. If you’re not in ecommerce and only have a few products, you could experiment with having a tiered payment plan. This shifts the decision from “should I buy?” to “which plan should I buy?”

Your checkout must also be frictionless and easy to use. Optimise your forms so you only ask your customers for the essentials you need to process payment. Give them the option of signing up on the thank you page, so when they return to the site, they can buy without entering their payment details again.

A/B Testing

Make sure to conduct A/B tests when you are considering changes. ‘A’ should be how the site was before, and ‘B’ your improvement attempt. Google Optimiser is a good option to get started with A/B testing.

For every change you make, you need to conduct an A/B test, otherwise you won’t know whether the changes you’re making are improving your conversions!

User Testing and Surveys

User surveys are what they sound like: a short set of questions asking for feedback on the site. The best places to include a survey are the thank you page after a customer has bought a product, or an email sent after the customer has bought. Ask open ended questions.

You can take this a step further with user testing. This involves directly filming how users interact with the site. You’d generally need to pay people to participate in the test (or offer a discount) but it’s well worth it.

Give them specific tasks (buy black jeans in size 12, under £30) or general ones (buy something your mother would like) and see how they navigate your site. This will reveal problems that user surveys may not.
A$A$A
Usability testing actually gives you tangible data about your users. Basically, the data you get about their behaviors, actions, and problems is a great basis for introducing any future improvements to your service.  You can use an article  on 6 Examples How Usability Testing Increases Conversion.

In addition, I would recommend testing UsabilityTools, the Conversion Suite in particular. It's a nice tool that will boost your conversion rate by getting real-time feedback, checking your users' behavior and setting tasks for them on your website, so that you may walk in their shoes for a while and check how they want to see the page, and how they perform on it.
A$A$A
Honestly, there are countless to increase your website conversion. However, most of the specific strategies branch out from three main keys.

Optimize your positioning and offering. If your product, message, or offer doesn’t convert, nothing you do will. The very first step to increase a website’s conversion is to identify—or in a better word, validate—an offer that people are willing to signup or pay for. You can do that by creating a simple landing page to collect email addresses of people who interested in your offering. Or better yet, you can presell your products before you spend anything ordering inventory.

Optimize your traffic source and quality. Your traffic volume and email list size are less important than you think. If they are not the right audience for your offering, they are not going to convert. Figure out who you’re serving and the best channel to place your offering in front of them. For Sumo, content marketing works incredibly well because the audiences are entrepreneurs who want to learn more about entrepreneurship and digital marketing. On the other hand, AppSumo targets a group of price-sensitive audience and therefore, limited time paid advertising makes more sense as a traffic generation channel.

Optimize your web design and user experiences. After you get the first two things right, the final strategy to increase your website’s conversion is to improve the user experiences of your audiences and customers. In other words, you want to make it easy for them to convert. To do this, you first need tools like Google Analytics, Heatmap, and Live Chat to observe your users’ behaviors. Then, create assumptions based on your observations and test them regularly.

These are all the three strategies you need. My recommendation for you is to first identify and execute those that take the least effort for you to optimize, while creating the greatest impact on your numbers.
A$A$A
All you need to know:

In the battle of internet marketing there are some things that everyone’s armed with, but very few know how to yield them.

Your website is one such gear that ought to keep you abreast of your enemies.

However, how a website is going to be useful to you depends on how you use it.

If your website isn’t generating leads, then there’s no point in having one, is there?

Well, that doesn’t mean that you discard your website, it simply means that you hang out with me for the rest of this blog and find out how you can generate the much deserved leads.

Good enough?

Read on.

What is a website?

In the arena of internet marketing the talk is mostly about how you can optimize your landing pages for higher conversion rates.

A website is not much different from a landing page in the sense that it’s a collection of landing pages.

So when I say that you’ve got to optimize your website, what I really mean is that you have to optimize specifically one of your landing pages: your homepage.

Your homepage is the first page of your website or simply the original URL.

What is the function of a homepage?

What the function of your homepage is, is for you to decide.

For different types of business it serves different purposes.

For instance, some use their homepage as their ‘About Us’ page, while others use it to launch in to great details about their products and services.

However, since your objective is to generate leads and eventually convert them into prospective buyers, you have to create your homepage in a way that is bound to attract leads.

Optimizing your website is not only about bettering your homepage, rather it is also about linking the other pages of your site in such a way as to ensure that you’re guiding your visitors in a certain conversion path.

1.     Homepage

When your homepage registers on the search engine results page, you’re going to have to be prepared to awe your visitors.

There are a few pointers that you’re going to have to ensure that you have on your homepage to make it click-worthy.

You have to remember that this is the first stop from a search engine result, a paid ad or any other source for your visitor and you’ve got to set bait real quick.

A bait on your homepage is not going to be any one thing, but a composition of a few perfectly executed elements and they are as follows:

Heading

This is the element that’s going to be making the first impression because it practically tells the people what the page is all about.

The first most important thing about a heading is its visibility. Pick a legible font and size that’s h1 so that your heading stands out from the rest of the text.

Make sure your heading stands out

The size normally used for headings is H1 which is preset on WordPress.

The next most important thing about a heading after its font and size is how attractive and at the same time, informative it is.

For some people, no matter how boring your headline is, they will go on to read it probably because it’s a part of a research or they came to learn something new.

For the sake of these people you will have to make sure that your heading has the bare minimum information that your entire content has.

Your heading must incite curiosity and the rest of the page must be in correlation to it in order to deliver whatever has been promised.

Here’s an example,

Although this is not the traditional heading of something less than 7 words, it does a great job in one, standing out and two, stating the purpose of the business clearly.

Kudos!

Here’s another one.

This is an example of a fabulous homepage. It’s neat and clean and very simple.

Even though the name of the company has been placed in the left hand corner, the centre has been given to the most important piece of information: what the company has to offer its customers.

Subheading or a Brief description

Since your homepage is not your blog page or any other content, your heading could be the name of your business or company.

This could be accompanied by a subheading or a brief description.

As you have seen in the screen shot above, just the word or heading ‘resources’ isn’t enough and so they say where they’re specializing and what they’ve designed themselves to do.

Take a look at this page.

Antnose makes the perfect use of subheadings by concisely telling its visitors what services they can avail from this page.

Even the heading is informative!

Moving on, there’s something that all three of these pages have in common and that’s what I’m going to be looking at next.

Links

All of the websites have used several links each on their pages that no doubt will send off visitors towards different departments.

While this is a great way to broadcast yourself, it’s not always the safest thing to do since this increases the chance of losing leads.

This is because links act as distractions and your visitors could get lost wandering in your site.

In fact your visitors could have been just s a click away from signing up when they went like ‘oh look! I can find more features there – let’s go check them out first!’

And poof goes your visitor and you’re back to square one.

CTA

While removing distractions is a great idea, you’re call-to-action or CTA has to be equally loud and clear.

Easy navigation is part and parcel of a page that generates large leads because a large part of your leads will come by making sure that you carefully guide them towards your preferred destination.

This is one page that’s gotten their navigation right.

If you’ll look at the two pictures you’ll see that they’ve both got ‘Shop Women’ and ‘Shop Men’ CTAs on them.

This is subtly guiding the visitors to the next stage which is purchasing.

Once, somebody clicks on either one of those buttons, they’ll be lead to a page where every picture is accompanied by a ‘Shop Now’ button.

Check out the picture below.

The whole point of your homepage is to trap leads, yet if you’ve not left any crumbs lying around what do you expect your visitors to do?

This brings us about to our next important part to generating leads.

2.     Opt-in form

You may have designed a great opt-in page that you’ve added on your homepage as a link.

Now, if you’re expecting your visitors to navigate through the correct link and signup then you’re doomed.

The best idea is to have your CTAs on the homepage itself.

Here’s an example,

Here you’ve got the name which is Canva, and right below it you’ve got your call-to-action that says ‘start designing’.

It has a simple opt-in form with only two fields and so people won’t be as reluctant as they are when faced with too many field to fill in.

If you think adding an opt-in form on your homepage is going to spoil the anatomy then you could try doing what they’ve done here in the example below.

Send a pop-up opt-in form just so that your visitors know what needs to be done.

If you’re not already acquainted with the finer details of how to optimize opt-in formsthen you should probably go read up on it first.

This is the most crucial aspect of your homepage because generating leads depends solely on the action taken by your visitors.

Adding an email sign-up form right under your heading is one of the most high-converting places for your opt-in form.

That way there’s very little scope for distractions and the call is quite obvious.

At this point, if all has gone right for you, you’re all set to generate a healthy serving of leads.

3.     Nurture your leads

Although you truly may have generated a lot of leads you’re nowhere near success … yet.

The real deal starts after you’re visitors have signed up for something that you promised to offer them.

Here’s a few things that will help you to make sure that your visitors don’t slip away.

The first thing that you’ve got to do after visitors have signed up is send them a thank you note.

Here’s an example from the email I received after I ordered food online formFoodpanda.

Often it’s just an encouraging mail that can warm your leads up to you.

And sometimes it requires a little more effort than that.

Often leads are not yet ready to move on to the next step of the conversion or sales funnel, that is begin the purchase process.

This is why you’ve got to spend a good amount of effort behind them.

How do you do it, you ask?

Well, you could promise them a 7 episode series that you’ll send out over a period of either  7 days or 7 weeks depending on the intensity of the reads.

The objective of the course is to educate your leads about the significance or practicality of your service or product so that even if they didn’t have plans they’d start making them right about now.

If you’re wondering in people do stuff like that, then here’s proof straight from my inbox:

That’s the kind of mail you’re leads will be expecting if they’ve handed you their dearer-than-life email addresses, so make sure you make the best out of them.

Like most businesses, if you’ve got a blog that is updated on a regular basis then you could get that to work in your favor as well.

The inactivity on part of your visitors will help you comprehend where they stand.

In that case, instead of mailing them a whole course-like series you could send themlinks to your blog on a daily basis so that you’re giving them the 7 day course in really tiny doses.

You know what’s another great idea?

That’s listening to your visitors once in a while.

I mean, as internet marketers we often get way too busy trying to tell people, trying really hard to sell our products.

We rant on about our services and all the flashy offers we have, but we rarely shut down in order to hear from those people without whom our business don’t run.

Since this is a rare thing, listening to your visitors will give you an edge over your competitors.

Ask your visitors to send in a mail, or you could arrange for a live chat session where you could address their problems on a one to one basis.

Just make it worth their time and effort.

In fact asking your visitors or engaging in a conversation with them is an ideal move because it allows you to monitor your leads.

By keeping a keen eye on them you can easily understand how much they are willing to partake in a monetary transaction and consequently what your next step towards them should be.

Instead of blinding sending out generalized emails, you will then be able to prepare content for each group of your visitors.

And believe me; it’ll be totally worth it.

So before I wrap up let’s do a review of the things that you’ve got to stick to.

Homepage. You’ve got to create an optimized homepage which you could also do with some help that you can find online.

Opt-in forms. These have got to be top-of-the-class stuff since this is what baits your visitors and finally,

Nurture your leads, because just getting them doesn’t spell success.

You can find about more on conversion optimization in the link below:

Create Landing Pages, A/B Testing & Analytics, Conversion Rate Optimization Tips | Leadants Internet Marketing Blog
A$A$A
You may think you've done everything you can to increase the volume of traffic to your website. However, it is pointless if you are not generating enough revenue from it. Hence, you must ensure that the users visiting your website are being effectively converted into paying customers.

Following are a few tips that will help you achieve this goal:

#1. Place the important buttons like ‘sign in’ or ‘purchase’ wisely. They should not be difficult for the buyers to find.

#2. The pages of your website should not take too much time to load. If they do, then it will send away a large number of potential customers.

#3. The website must have enough calls-to-action for converting visitors into customers. When it comes to improving the conversion rates of a website you should pay attention to both the quality and the quantity of the content.

#4. The website should also look good on mobile phones since a large number of people use their mobile phones to check stuffs on the internet. The mobile site must be enabled to perform all the functions as the desktop site.

There are a lot more things you can do to improve the conversion rate of your website. You can check out this blog post: How to Improve Your Conversions with User Behavior Analytics. It is very informative, and I hope it will help.
A$A$A
The most efficient way to increase a website’s conversion rate is to work on building trust among your existing and potential customers. Here are some of the most effective ways to do that:

1. Word-of-mouth marketing

Build a network of loyal customers willing to promote your store and products among their friends and family. About 92% of people are basing their purchase decisions on recommendations received from people they know. So you need to be aware of the fact that your customers are your most powerful marketing army – do whatever you can to make them happy and they will return the favor. Decorate the most loyal with special discounts and coupons and they will remain loyal for life.

2. Reviews and other forms of UGC (User Generated Content)[1]

User-generated-content is what your loyal army produces in the online environment to show gratitude for great services (or punish you for the contrary) and to share their joy with other people. Most often, it takes the form of reviews, followed by social media comments and shares, and even pictures showing the products in action.

UGC is very important in building trust online and it helps both customers who are taking decisions on the spur of the moment but also those who are taking their time and do research before acquiring something important. That’s why it is imperative for you to offer customers a place where they can express themselves. Adding reviews and ratings to your product pages; to your store and even to your marketing campaigns will increase your click-through and conversions rates (while decreasing your CPC).

A study ran by Yotpo first on a sample of 500 websites and then on a sample of 30,000 websites shown that, over a period of 3-9 months, websites that integrated reviews experienced a traffic boost of 47.94%.

That might be because over 65% of buyers read reviews before making a purchase and 76% claim that reviews influence their buying decisions.

I recommend you to read this article and learn how to get more reviews and what is the actual power of online reviews over conversion rates.

Footnotes

[1] 8 Inspiring User Generated Content Examples Done Right
A$A$A
Understanding customers is an important element in order to achieve your goal. So as to persuade users, you can use user psychology.

For example, you can use to principle of reciprocity. In 2002, researchers found that waiters could increase their tips with the psychology of reciprocity. Tips increased 3 percent when customers were offered after-dinner mints.

But when the waiters were asked to pause, look at the customers and tell them the mint was specially for them – tips went up by 20 percent! This is a proof that we want to give back to people when they do us a favor.

How can you implement this principle to your website?

Offer something to your visitors for free so that they feel indebted to you. One of the best ways to put reciprocity to work is to through content marketing.

By blogging you can give away value for free in the form of blog posts. Your focus should be to genuinely give value to your readers.

The best example of this is MR PORTER | Designer fashion for men. This site started out as a fashion magazine and has now branched into a full-fledged E-commerce store. It still publishes some of the best men’s lifestyle content online, including in-depth interviews with celebrities, fashion guides, etc.

In other words: by giving customers something, they make their products more attractive.

You can find more tips to use user psychology to increase conversion rates here 4 Time-Tested Principles of Psychology that Will Help You Increase Your Conversion Rates .
A$A$A
This is a great question, partly because of the fact that it explicitly asks to be answered honestly, and partly because it’s been long since it’s actually been answered with the genuinity it requires.

The problem is offering, or asking for tips, tricks, tactics, ways, best practices, and similar advice to increase conversion rates on a website is in itself a suboptimal approach to solve an issue as critical as low conversions.

Why?

Because no two websites are created equally, what works on one may not work on another, and vice versa.

Following what has worked for other people is something you should avoid, or at the most, just keep as a starting point.

In no way should it be taken as the last mile.

After ensuring you have a fully functional, usable website up and running with the most optimum essentials (Live Chat, Exit Intent, and so on) depending on the type of business you’re running, you should move on to the more important part of optimizing for conversions.

I’m talking about following a methodical, scientific approach to improve conversions on a website, popularly known as Conversion Rate Optimization.

Conversion rate optimization, or CRO, is a scientific, process-oriented approach for finding out why visitors are not taking the desired action on a website, and then fixing those reasons or issues to increase the conversion rate.

If all of this sounds too overwhelming, you can go through a guide we created to help people understand how Conversion Rate Optimization works—The Comprehensive Guide To Conversion Rate Optimization.

In the past eight years, VWO has provided leading global brands, including Microsoft, Toyota, Samsung, eBay, Target, Domino's, and more with its Conversion Optimization platform to consistently lift the conversion rates for their KPIs and other metrics that matter to their businesses (average order value, signup rate, and so on).

You can check out these case studies where a multibillion dollar eCommerce store witnessed a lift in visits-to-order by 26%, automobile major Hyundai boosted conversion rate by 62%, and more here—VWO case studies.

If you’re interested in implementing a conversion rate optimization process to boost conversions on your website, I’d like you to take a product tour of the VWO website.

The VWO Conversion Optimization platform provides you all the capabilities needed to run a structured conversion optimization program in an integrated fashion. Here’s a glimpse of VWO’s capabilities:

TRACK

Track allows you to measure funnels and goals on your (desktop and mobile) websites, right there on the VWO dashboard. This capability provides a single source of truth for your funnel conversion rate so that you can easily decide which part of the funnel you should “fix” next and for which segment of visitors should you be fixing the funnel.

ANALYZE

Analyze includes tools such as session recordings (see playback of visitors interacting with your website), on-site surveys, heatmaps, clickmaps, scrollmaps, and form analytics. This capability lets you dig deeper into visitor behavior (from multiple angles) and find out what’s causing some visitors to abandon your website or landing pages.

PLAN

Plan provides you and your team one dashboard to record and prioritize your observations, ideas, and hypotheses; and helps you select ideas for your next web tests. Think of it like an end-to-end project management tool for your conversion optimization program.

TEST

Test lets you test and experiment through multiple ways, such as visual A/B tests that do not require coding, multivariate tests, and split URL tests. This capability has been our forte, and we have enhanced it in numerous ways with this release.

TARGET

Target lets you deploy your winning tests or provide a specific experience to your target segment. This capability also allows you to slice and dice your visitor segments and improve the conversion rate for different segments by targeting a specific experience to them.

Here’s some feedback from customers on our connected conversion optimization platform:

On approaching the challenge of increasing your website conversion rates by using a structured method, you can be assured of a winning result, or at least a great extent of learning.

Interested? Sign up for a 30-day free trial of VWO.

(Disclaimer: I work at VWO - The World’s First Connected Conversion Optimization Platform)
A$A$A
First of all you have to identify the pain points of your design and make sure that what your users see is actually what you want them to see.

Users attention is grabbed by useless photos or informations and you need to avoid it as much as possible!!!! Your page can look awesome - but it doesn’t indicates that it will convert well.

There are tools that might help you out to discover how users behave on your website. I’m using 2: RealEye for eye-tracking & Hotjar for click - tracking

The first one will tell you exactly what users see on your page within first 5–20 seconds, and what grabs their attention. Second one will show you how users interact with your website with mouse movements.

With data provided by those two types of heatmaps you can measure this data by yourself:

Are the most important elements (eg. CTA / Logo) noticed?

Are users reading your content at all?

Check time to notice defined elements ...

... and time spent looking at them;

Check visibility of elements below fold,

Identify distractions by useless elements

Good luck with your optimizations! ;)
A$A$A
There are countless ways to increase conversion. Some are easy and can be enabled in minutes while others take more research and effort.

However, be careful to not only look at conversion as your primary success metric. Increases in conversion can occur at the detriment to other metrics (margin/order, customer lifetime value, etc.)

Some tactics that can swing conversion…

Promotions + Pricing

Probably the fastest way to increase conversion. If you lower your prices by 20% or suddenly offer Free Shipping to customers who are used to paying $4.95, you WILL increase conversion, guaranteed. Again, just be sure to measure impact to other metrics and test heavily here.

Make Your Website Easy + Helpful

Find out which features customers don’t use and remove them.

Find out which features customers are missing and add them.

Find out what is stopping customers from buying (friction points) and fix them.

You can find out my looking at funnel reports in your web analytics tool, surveying customers, or running usability studies.

Adjust Your Marketing Mix

To keep things simple, let’s say you get 10,000 visitors to your site with the following mix:

SEO: 50% Traffic (5,000 visitors) at 3% conversion

Social Media: 25% Traffic (2,500 visitors) at 2% conversion

Email: 25% Traffic (2,500 visitors) at 5% conversion

Overall your conversion rate would be 3.25%. Now if you stopped investing in social media (your lowest converting channel) your conversion rate would jump up to 3.67%. Good right? But that means you would lose traffic and also some orders overall. Yikes.

The point here is to know which channels perform better than others. Keep an eye on (and potentially cut/optimize) low-converting channels and double-down on channels that work well.

*Don’t forget that some channels just aren’t great for conversion (social media, I’m talking to you). However, they may be great at upper funnel acquisition. Spend some time understanding how your channels all work together.

Retargeting + Repeat Purchases

New visitors convert at a lower rate than repeat visitors. That is true 99.9% of the time (unless you are delivering a truly horrible product). Each time the visitor returns they are learning more about your company and products, and getting closer to conversion.

Keep visitors coming back by investing retargeting tools such as abandon cart emails and display/social media retargeting ads.

Also bring previous customers back through well designed emails and loyalty programs. Don’t forget their friends through refer-a-friend and affiliate campaigns.

Product Information

Your job in sales (online and off) is to answer all questions and remove any fear and doubt from the purchase process. Online the best way to do this is through high-quality product photos and videos, product reviews and testimonials, accurate size charts, and details of the features (and benefits!) of your products.

Navigation and Findability

If customers can’t find your products, they can’t buy them. Make sure navigation is easy to use, and that products are grouped logically into user-centric collections and categories. Also make sure your onsite search works for popular terms.

Once they get to those collections make sure they have the right tools to filter and narrow the products to find exactly what they’re looking for.

Make Sure You Website Works

On all devices. On all Browsers. And make sure it’s fast.

Good luck on you future conversion efforts. It really comes down to making the experience great for your customers. Conversion comes second.

If you enjoy this you’ll likely also enjoy my newsletter, Add to Cart. Each week I hand pick my favorite articles for eCom professionals to help inspire action. You can signup here.
A$A$A
You can help your conversion rates by doing many things, I consider the following examples especially useful.

Implement help desk software. According to the American Express Survey, 78% of consumers don’t decide to purchase a product because they are not satisfied with the customer service. The lack of support doesn’t help as well. Therefore, if you want to increase conversion rates, you should use chat greetings. Moreover, these invitations should be personalised as they tend to improve conversion rate optimisation.

Thanks to LiveChat you can guide visitors through your website and help when they encounter some technical issues. Visitors aren’t left alone with the problem and you can influence the purchasing process at the same time. Additionally, according to our Customer Happiness Report which was based on 8.4 thousand companies, 86% of customers were satisfied with LiveChat experience.

Secondly, a proper design - love at the first sight. The image of your landing page is a key factor as well. Would you click on a CTA button placed on a site with poor design, bad quality pictures or dazzling colours? Honestly, I would be afraid that this can invite a catastrophe named a Trojan horse. On this account, make an effort to create great visuals with well-chosen colours. Read about the colour theory which tells which colours go well together and create a good contrast. This may really help to attract attention and convince a visitor, that he may find something valuable after clicking.

According to animoto.com placing well-made videos clarifying the use of products may increase conversion rates up to 73%. That’s a lot. Additionally, about 68% of consumers reckon that brands which produce films are more reliable and worth trusting. So, putting additional efforts into video making seem worth trying as well.

Provide social proof. The assumptions of influencer marketing contend that people are more likely to purchase a product after hearing about it from people they know, so-called social influencers. So, when pictures and videos of your products are shared by bloggers, it is more probable that people will buy it. Plus, according to Twitter, 40% of its users admitted having bought a product or service because of tweets shared by social influencers.

A good headline can sell a website. Try to test different headlines cause it may appear, that your dream headline isn’t the best “catcher”. Let's see for example 37signals’ case. They improved their conversion rates after placing “30 Day Free Trial on All Accounts” headline instead of ‘’Start a HighRise Account”. The point is that your headline should be valuable for visitors. They should feel they can gain something from reading it. Therefore, putting a word “free” may help. Almost everybody likes to get good things on the cuff.

Place clear and strong call-to-action buttons. There are some rules saying that you should place your CTA buttons in containers or that they should be in the centre of your page. You can also make squint test - you simply squint your eyes while looking at the page containing a CTA button. If it’s still attracting your attention, it means that it’s placed in a good space and has good colours. If not - you have to change something.

The point is that every case is different. Surely, you should construct your page in a way that its content supports noticing your CTAs. Nevertheless, the best way to check if your CTAs are effective is to test it.

The choice of words is important too. Mozilla's case is a good example which shows that words in CTAs matter. The company boosted conversion rates significantly after changing their CTA “Try Firefox 3” into “Download Now - Free”. Therefore, if you are not satisfied with your CTAs, experiment with them and check which converts the best.
A$A$A
When you’re trying to persuade visitors to become conversions, your vehicle will be your website and the elements you place within it. You have to make users aware of what you’re selling, entice them and foster interest, and instill trust in them all within the confines of a webpage.

Here are some ways you can do that:

Have an identifiable value proposition that defines exactly what it is your products or services do coupled with a hero-image to separate yourself from the competition. Identify the value early on and make sure it’s clear.

Get Feedback by launching surveys and/or polls directed at finding the most common frustrations that customers face when using your website.

Understand their pain points by referring to Google Search Console and seeing what are the most common search terms that users enter when finding your website.

Use analytical tools to uncover any conversion blockers users may be facing when dealing with your website. Session replay and heatmaps are a great way to find conversion blockers for individual users and large segmented groups as a whole. I would recommend Unamo Conversion Web Analytics to gather heatmap and session replay data.

Generate leads with CTAs placed accordingly throughout landing pages and content pages so you can stay informed on who is interested in your niche.

Generate more traffic from the search engines as it tends to be more targeted in terms of user intent.

Convert social media users by providing CTAs within your shared content pages and offer promotions, giveaways, or contests with your shared content to increase leads.

A/B test everything to know which elements work best in conjunction with your other elements and keep monitoring user behavior with your conversion analytical tools.
A$A$A
Look for the creative ways to increase your online sales. That’s why, I would like to approach from a different perspective.

If you want to increase your online sales, you may use some psychological pricing strategies. They all encourage the motivation of online shoppers to convert better on your e-commerce site.

Do you know why?

Because consumer behaviour has an irresistible inclination to respond to certain types of online prices and this is what it is called psychological pricing.

That’s why academically proven strategies were examined on the Prisync blog.

So, let’s dive into the article Psychological Pricing Strategies For E-Commerce Retailers and take time to think about your own pricing strategy and the ways you can influence people into making a purchase.

Basically you’ll learn;

Charm Pricing

Prestige Pricing

Using Bundle

Odd Pricing

Price Anchoring

Price Simplicity

Offering Incentives
A$A$A
Increasing your conversion rate by using some ethical technique. Nice :)

So, There are many ways to increase your website conversion rate.

1. Paid Campaign (Less Time)

2. Without Paid Campaign (Takes time).

Firstly, I would like to tell you about How to start Paid Campaign. There are some major point before starting it you should understand who are your business target audience.

While choosing your target audience, you have to confirm about these question-

1. Who are your target customers for your business?

2. Which countries should you have to focus?

3. Select the category of customer (Men or Women).

4. Which age category you should have to focus (Child, Adult, teenagers, Aged or others).

5. Relate your target audience profession - Are they relevant for you or not?

6. How much area you are going to cover? i.e, before starting any paid campaign you should have prior information about geographical covering for the target audience.

7. You should understand the behavior of your customer- How they would like to search your business on the internet? what type of keyword is perfect for your business?

8. Choose only those Keywords - According to Search Engine Popularity with the low bidding cost. You can use Keyword Planner (Adwords).

9. Your conversion is calculated like If your investment total amount for a month 500$ and Your Customer conversion rate is 5% then your per customer conversion cost is 100$. So, Be careful about How much amount you have invested in a month and what action needs to be taken according to result.

Using all of these you can increase your conversion rate easily within the sort period of duration.

Secondly, Bigger Influence of A/B testing of your website for both type paid campaign.

Using this testing technique, you can easily monitor your customer behavior, action on the website where are they click? what are they doing?, How they are interacting with your website?

A/B testing is a process of selecting the best one between two variant of a web page. The selection process is done only when the different variant of the same web page comparison performing better than original page. I would like to suggest you to go for Google testing tool or you can go for Optimizely. Using Optimizely you can modify the content of your selected page then you can check and monitor every element & section of a page performance by using their different tools.

In digital marketing, you need to know about A/B testing technique because it helps you a lot in increasing conversion rate whether it is paid campaign or unpaid campaign.

Guidelines A/B Testing:-

1. If you want to increase your CTR “Click through Rate” you can test your Call To Action button of a web page. You can also take help Crazy Egg Tool by Neil Patel.

2. Changes in color and animation of a web page.

3. It is more beneficial for increasing the landing performance.

4. Changes the place of Heading section.

5. If you are having user form page, then make more interactive and reduce complexity using a/b testing.
A$A$A
E-commerce companies have been working on advertising and getting visitors on their landing pages, but only 1% to 3% of the visitors actually convert into sales. It’s time to step it up and focus on boosting your customer conversion rates. Here are 5 useful tips to help achieve your goals:

1.  Be visual and descriptive

Every potential customer on your e-commerce website is looking for refreshing product content. They don’t want to be shown tacky product pictures or paragraphs of product manufacturing features. You need to capture the essence of your product and engage your visitors with product experience even if they have not bought it yet.

Quality product photos

Put your product into context. Showing a model wearing your product or positing your product with the right background helps your visitors put user experience into perspective. They will find it much easier to relate to the product in real life and thus convert them into customers.

Create your own product descriptions

Write short, concise, and engaging descriptions for your product. You need to highlight the features in a way that your visitors best understand.

Put on product testing videos

There isn't a better way to persuade your visitors than a lively human interaction. Videos also allow you to showcase your product to the fullest extent. So get on the cameras and do it!

2.  Easy communication

Communication is key to customer conversion. When the communication is smooth and visitors are able to get their answers, they develop trust for your store and willingness to buy your product.

Live chat is what makes visitors stick around

Shoppers have all sorts of questions about a product, and some questions can get very specific. For example, when a girl is shopping for lingerie online and she wants to know the specifics about fit, cup size, etc., a short, sweet live chat with the customer service will show her that you care. Immediately, this personalized shopping experience takes seed in your visitors’ minds and convert them to customers.

3.  Make free shipping an option

People hate to pay for shipping. In a lot of cases, customers leave the website when they see a shipping charge option. So don’t make online shopping a hassle for your customers!

Shipping doesn't have to be free all the time, but even free shipping with conditions convert much better than charged shipping. Sephora offers free shipping to purchase over 50$ and 2-day free shipping for VIP customers. This not only boosts their conversion rates but also make their customers stick longer for more rewards.

4.  Stop shopping cart abandonment

People put products into their carts for a reason, so don’t let that initial rationale slip away. There are several ways to do it:

Save the cart 

Make saving option available so they can come back whenever they feel like to and buy the product.

Follow up

If a shopping cart is saved but the purchase does not happen, send a reminder to your customers on what they have put in the cart and kindly suggest them to purchase before it’s gone.

5.  Gather your data and test!

Once you have some conversions, you should start collecting data from these purchases and run tests on what converts customers the best. Maybe it’s a seasonal discount offer or a free 2-day shipping. You never know unless you test. Once you have some insights into what drives conversion rates, you can optimize your website according to these tests.

~~~~~

At Gimmie.io, we created a marketing A.I. to help e-commerce websites run marketing tests and find out how to best convert their visitors.
A$A$A
A press releases is probably the least expensive and most efficient way to reach potential clients.

Unfortunately, many fail to utilize this tool, possibly because they don’t feel they know enough about publicity to craft an effective press release. But If written and formatted correctly, a press release can bring positive media attention, presenting your new product to the public as the newsworthy event that it truly is.

Here are a few tips for writing an effective product launch press release.

Write an outline first. Use the outline to articulate the all-important 5w’s and h: who, what, where, when, why and how. What is it about your product that makes it different from all others? What problem is it going to solve? Answering these questions will help you appeal to journalists, who are looking to report factual information on innovative products.

Craft a punchy headline. A good headline accurately reflects the topic of the press release and makes the audience want to read more.

Keep your tone objective. We know that this product is life-changing and awesome, but strive to show that with data and facts instead of just telling it. Remember that this is a news story, not a commercial.

“An image is worth a thousands words.” Include a photograph of your product. Visuals always make a topic more engaging and memorable.

Conclude with accurate contact information. Provide a phone number and/or an email address that reporters can use to contact you for additional information.

Once you’ve written your press release, go ahead and submit an online order at Press Release Jet for press release distribution services. For only $99, they will distribute your press release to all the top-tier media networks, as well as push it out to the most common social media platforms.

SEND YOUR PRODUCT LAUNCH PRESS RELEASE NOW
A$A$A
One of the ways to efficiently increase conversion is to propose your customers the right pricing. Seeing optimal price they will more likely make a purchase after comparing prices at different websites (according to Forrester, 81% of consumers compare the price before making a buying decision).

Surely, this may take an effort, but it’s worth. Don’t just lower your prices, rather build a competitive pricing strategy. To do this, you need a full high-quality data on your competitors. Try a pricing solution like Competera to analyze all market information and following parameters:

Price Index. Get to know which of your competitors have a real impact on the market.

How To Calculate Competitors’ Impact On Your Sales In 15 Minutes

Promo-activities to optimize your own promotional activities

Availability of good to see when competitors are running out of some products

By knowing your own data like product list and cost price and desired margin you will build the repricing rules and reach your goals. With the processes of competitive pricing set up, you will increase sales and margin thanks to optimal prices.

Request Free Trial
A$A$A
Well atracting a potential customer is hard enough. Grabbing their interest and retaining them in more difficult. I strongly believe a website with a clear, convenient and users-friendly layout and navigation really motivate people do a targeted action.

So I ’d recommend some great tools that attract more visitors and increase the conversion rate. These extensions offers a lot of great extensions that can significantly help your eCommerce store and boost sales.

Let’check out it!!

1. Mega Menu Extension 2

Bad navigation can make the bad impression on people at the first time they visit your site. By using Magento Mega Menu, you can create a professional and outstanding Magento navigation menu of your website.

2. Shop By Brand Extension 2

With Magento Shop By Brand Extension, you can create and display brands on a separate landing page, so that, site users can easily find their favorite manufacturer and products. It is useful to attract and keep customers on your site longer.

3. Social Login Extension 2

Finally, don’t forget to connect social media channels with your website. It is simple and effective to apply Magento Social Login 2 on you site that allow customers to log in simply and quickly. As a result, it can engage more visitors and boost the traffic for your website.

For more tools, you may visit: Great tools for eCommerce website

Hopefully this can help you :)
A$A$A
I have a two part strategy.

STEP 1: Survey your visitors

This strategy is often overlooked, but surveying visitors is great for 2 reasons:

1. You capture actionable insights from your visitors

2. You see the exact words your customers are using to describe your business (this is fantastic for improving website sales copy).

Here are some sample surveys our clients at Informizely are using:

“Is our pricing clear?”

“Is there anything preventing you from signing up?”

“What was the one thing that almost prevented you from buying today?” (purchase thank you page)

“How would you describe [product name] to a friend / colleague?”

“What is the primary benefit you received from our company?”

You can see 16 proven survey examples on our recent blog post

Step 2: Use the Unbounce Page Analyzer

Are you implementing all of the best practices for website CRO? Click here to use Unbounce’s free tool (it’s awesome).

Step 3: Combine Step 2&3

Combine the actionable customer insights you learned in step 1 with the checklist of quick conversion wins from step 2 to give your website a conversion overhaul.

This strategy is both honest, low cost and won’t take long to implement. If you want to A/B test your website with the new changes I suggest using Google’s free tool called Optimize.

A quick note on Informizely, with it you receive responses in real time and can then use the advanced reporting to quickly find relevant insights. Responses can then be easily filtered and exported.

Hope that helps!

Disclaimer: I’m head of Customer Success @ Informizely
A$A$A
Hi!

Working at Bontact I think I can shed some light…

Increasing your website conversion rate requires an understand of user behavior on your site. It is important to remember that customers are smarter, more intuitive and interactive than ever before. They are doing so many more actions before purchasing, and you need to understand and push them at the right point in the journey which will create an online purchase.

I have a list of 10 tips to get you started quickly to influence your customers’ experience and hopefully increase business conversion rates as well. You can read the full guide on our blog here

Some highlights are:

1. Doing A/B testing - to know what work better for your customers.

2. Great site performance - time is money and a fast loading site is critical.

3. Track your customer's journey on Google Analytics - to identify problems and make changes accordingly.

4. Customer feedback - the best advice to improve your site.

5. Setting up the sales funnel - to cause purchases at the right time.

6. Build customer trust - you can read here how to do that.

7. Highlight your benefits to keep your customers before they compare on their own.

8. Keep your customers focus on what you want that they are doing.

9. Incentives - everybody loves them

10. Communication -today’s customers expecting more than ever before. They are resourceful and Involved more than ever. That’s why the way we communicate with them is so important. We need to evolve and meet those high expectations of being available anywhere, anytime. A great approach for opening communication channels that meet this now expected standard is Bontact’s multi-channel communication approach. Being able to communicate with customers through chat, messaging, text, voice, Messenger, Whatsapp, Line, and Viber is not only convenient to customers, but can also positively affect your conversion rates. As a business owner, this is priceless. Don’t underestimate the value in having all communication channels in the one place. Convenience is key for customers, a happy customer is a loyal one.

I hope that helps. Let me know if you need anything else.
A$A$A
Previous answers concluded many good ways to increase a website's conversion rate. I’m trying to explain and expand some points, hope these would be help.

1.Design a killer homepage/storefront!

Bad Conversion Rate? Don’t Blame It on Your Products but Your Storefront!

Believe it or not, your online storefront leaves the first impression to your potential customers. Just like the attraction between males and females, the first 15s may decide their relationship in the further. “Mentality for Shop Indoor Decoration” is what I’m talking about.

2. Don’t forget your product landing page

5 Ways to Optimize Your Product Landing Pages

People has paid too much efforts to optimize homepage but ignore the significance of landing page. In fact, the landing page determines the user’s conversion,especially the product landing pages.

In my opinion, best landing pages always conclude following elements:

Deliver valuable information to your visitors

Don’t complicate your headline

Try to use high quality images

The high-quality large images with multiple angle shots are highly important to enhance shopping experience. What’s more, you’d better embed a product zoom feature to ensure that visitors can zoom in on your products and see the finer details in HD. Some platforms provide image optimization service, so you don’t need to be anxious about whether your images are suitable or not. For instance,JumoreGlobal, a leading B2B platform from China, provides their clients with personalized image optimization service.

Reduce loading time

Attention links

3. Create pleasant user experiences

8 Must-dos to Create Customized User Experience on B2B E-commerce Platforms

Actually, B2B customers expect the same intuitive shopping experience they obtained from B2C shopping and it would be much more important to them since they are placing large quantities of goods, high value orders with a much higher risk.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What are some of the bad experiences from Airbnb guests/hosts?
A$A$A
The Airbnb Host Guarantee is a total fraud. I looked into the abyss of worst case predatory corporate behavior when I filed my claim.

I am a big Airbnb fan, both as a host in my New York aparment and as a guest. I hope this is a single incident and the fault of one case manager. But it’s important to share.

My first bad experience was in just recently in July 2016, with a guest that damaged property (floor, walls) and stole a whole set of expensive cosmetics from a friend that were stored in my bathroom.

The Airbnb Host Guarantee case manager behaved terribly. He dragged out the process over a month, demanding more and more “evidence” (a police report, exact list of missing items, photos of damage, quotes from handyman and Amazon list price links were insufficient). They continuously set 48 h “deadlines” for responses nearly every time I got a message, and said if I miss them the case gets closed.

After jumping through all the hoops, they told me they decided to close the case anyway.

This was a shocking experience - I read the terms and of course, there are certain things I didn’t provide (mostly the purchasing receipts for the stolen goods, since I don’t keep those). But the pictures with damages and police report got simply ignored by them.

This was “only” about $3,000, so it’s not worth to hire a lawyer and spend more time on this.

Here are some more details in case you are interested:

* I had trouble with the guest already when they stayed in my apartment, and complained with Airbnb. Airbnb reviewed the case and had the guest actually pay for additional people they brought over to live there. The Airbnb team responsible for handling problems with the guest while staying there was great.

* After the guests left, we assessed the room and saw all the damage, and realized they had stolen lots of valuable items from the bathroom. I immediately informed Airbnb. They passed the case on to another guy called “Reiko”, and that’s where nightmare started.

Some official correspondence from Airbnb’s Reiko:

“If a host requests compensation through the Host Guarantee program, Airbnb will review the damages to determine if the guest is responsible and if the host qualifies for reimbursement under our terms:www.airbnb.com/terms

If the host qualifies for compensation, Airbnb will take measures to recoup those funds from the guest.”

> So, Reiko told me basically that if the guest doesn’t pay, I don’t get paid. Of course the guest doesn’t pay, he was a crook who stole my stuff.

After 1 months of back and forth, police involvement, handyman reviews and spending hours on this stupid case following Reiko’s instruction, he send me this:

“Thank you for getting in touch with us. We understand that this may have been a difficult and frustrating process.Unfortunately, we did not receive a response from you within 48 hours of our last email, sent on August 7th, as was specifically requested. Therefore, your claim was closed.”

>> The Airbnb host Guarantee states explicitly that a host has 60 days time to SUBMIT the request. I submitted within 24 hours on July 30th, and then Reiko dragged the process out over a month back and forth.

I freaked out given this out-of-control statement and asked Reiko what this is all about. I received this cookie cutter response:

“Thank you so much for following up, I definitely understand how frustrating all of this must be for you.

Whenever a situation like this arises, we advocate for an amicable solution. As a neutral third-party not present during the reservation, we must make a fair decision based on documentation and communication from both host and guest.

Following a full review of all documentation and communication in this case, we reached what we believe to be a fair compromise for both parties. As you may already know, our policies state that we have the final say in any dispute to which we are called upon to mediate. As such, the decision reached in this case is final and cannot be overturned.“

WOW.

Basically, there is no Host Guarantee. Airbnb simply tries to convince the fraudulent guest to pay. If they don’t pay, you (I) are screwed. Airbnb is not going to pay a dime.

This is in clear violation of their own stated terms. It says:

“We’re committed to creating a safe and trusted community around the world. Though property damage is rare, we understand you may need protection. The Host Guarantee will reimburse eligible hosts for damages up to $1,000,000.”

>> What it doesn’t mention is that it’s the guest’s responsibility to pay this $1,000,000.

It also states:

Useful documentation and information that will help process your payment request as quickly as possible include:

photographs of the damage being claimed

a police report for any damage that is over $300 USD

receipts or some alternative evidence of the accurate fair market value or report cost

proof of ownership

any other documentation that you feel will be helpful to processing your request

>> We delivered all of this, but it didn’t help. We didn’t see a single dime.

The bottom line:

Either Reiko is a liar and processed our case in the wrong way, or the Host Guarantee is a fraud. I am pretty sure I would win this in court; but Reiko and Airbnb unfortunately know that it’s not worth my time and money given the small (but still significant) amount of $3,000.

My guess is Airbnb simply assesses your earnings and comes up with a certain limit below that they will just screw you over and say “goodbye, no host guarantee for you” in clear violation with their own terms, since they know you can’t go to court.

I at least wanted to let my friend on Quora know.

Very sad and disillusioned with the “sharing economy”. This is not a friendly startup, but worst case predatory corporate behavior. If you have gone through the same thing, maybe we can file a class action lawsuit.
A$A$A
Here is an experience as a guest that both started and had the potential to be very bad, and then how the professionalism of the AirBnB executive staff turned the experience around and made me a life-long fan of the company. And NO, I am not an employee, investor or otherwise shill for AirBnB, just an infrequent guest who plans to become a more frequent guest because of how they handled a bad experience.

In May 2016, my daughter graduated from Washington State University in Pullman Washington. About 13 months’ before, my wife started emailing relatives to see which ones wanted to fly in to be at the graduation ceremony, and as you might expect, both sets of grandparents (on my side, divorced and one with new significant other) wanted to attend, as did both her siblings. As we thus needed to house 10 of us in at least 6 different rooms, my wife decided to reserve a house via AirBnB in April 2015.

Here is a map of the distance (15 minutes) of the home we booked on AirBnB from campus [Moscow Idaho to Pullman Washington]:

Google Maps

Flash forward a year later. About 2 weeks before graduation, we get the following e-mail (To/From addresses deleted):

Begin forwarded message:

From: "Scott (Airbnb User)"

 Date: April 27, 2016 at 5:14:16 PM PDT

 To:

 Reply-To:

I'm sorry but the home isn't available. Air b n b should not have listed it as so since I no longer own the house and have cancelled with Air BnB.

My apologies. This is the first I heard about it.

Sent from my Verizon 4G LTE Droid

### Airbnb ###

On seeing this, my wife goes into panic mode. All hotel rooms for graduation are filled. The nearest AirBnB available that could sleep 10 was in Parkline Idaho almost 70 miles (90 minutes each way) from Campus. The next closest after than was almost 2 hours’ away. Other competing services to AirBnB, such as VRBO, have places available that are in Coeur d’Alene but not closer for the size we need.

Google Maps

We call to AirBnB customer support that day (Wednesday), and they say, “we will look into it and get back to you in 2–3 business days.” (ie, the next Monday). My wife is in a panic, so we make the decision to reserve the Parkline Airbnb before that home disappears and hope we can sort everything out with AirBnB thereafter.

As an aside, the original booking was approximately $800, the new booking was approximately $2000.

The next day, we get in touch with AirBnB to discuss the situation, and they send us the following e-mail:

---------- Forwarded message ----------

 From: <response@airbnb.com>

 Date: Thu, Apr 28, 2016 at 11:24 AM

 Subject: Airbnb: Your Reservation with Scott

 To:

Airbnb Customer Experience

Kristin P, Apr 28, 11:24:

Hi Christine,

Thanks for reaching back out to me and explaining the situation. While I understand that you were probably nervous and scrambling to find a place to stay, we may have been able to assist you in finding another accommodation closer and less expensive. Please know that we offer rebooking assistance if/when your host cancels to avoid this type of situation. I'm not saying that in this case we definitely could have found a listing for you, but we would have loved to try. I have refunded you $200 along with issued you a $200 travel credit towards your next booking. Here are the details:

Code: YOZWPUPX

 Expires: 2017-04-28

I'm sorry that I am unable to compensate you any further, but this is the best I can do. I'm also sorry that your host has to cancel on you and that you had to have this experience. My main priority is that our guests and hosts are happy and satisfied with their Airbnb experience, so please let me know if there is anything else I can clear up for you. I'm always happy to help. I will reach back out to you once Scott has responded to me regarding the cancellation. Have a great day.

Best Regards,

Kristin P

 www.airbnb.com/help

THIS EMAIL IS A SERVICE FROM AIRBNB CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE.

This email is a service from Airbnb Customer Experience.

For more information visit our Help Center

�n%M�V

Say What?

So… we spend $2000, have to be over an hour further away from the reunion, after having checked every hotel, every AirBnB listing, and 3 competitive sites to AirBnB for properties, and the best we can get is a reimbursement of a portion of the AirBnB fee and a future credit?

At this point I could have given up, stopped being an AirBnB customer forevermore. This could have been the end to a really bad experience.

HOWEVER… I knew at more senior levels, AirBnB would not put up with this type of customer experience, so I did my best to escalate within the organisation.

Sure enough, I was eventually able to get through to the Global Head of Customer Experience, Aisling Hassell, not even based in the US but based in Dublin Ireland.

Despite protestations from the group CFO that I probably should not have seen, Aisling arranged for AirBnB to comp my wife for the full cost of the new location, and gave both an email and an over-the-phone apology. This was far more than I had expected; I knew there was no closer location they could find for me either inside or outside the AirBnB network, but I had just hoped for an apology and a reimbursement of the difference between the first booking and the final booking.

From an internal AirBnB email:

Summary from Trip Lead:

I called and spoke with Steve's wife Christine, who booked the reservation(s). I was able to confirm the mistake that was made a year ago, when an agent turned off the host's listing but never followed up with any of his guests. Considering the poor experience and subsequent mishandling, I made the decision to refund these guests in full. Christine seemed delighted with the outcome, but if she or Steve have any questions, they've got a direct line to me.

______________________

 Aisling Hassell

 Global Head of CX

 Dublin

So there you have it. What started as a really bad guest experience was saved by great leadership, and converted me from what could have been a forever disgruntled former customer into a loyal one.
A$A$A
Some have been posted here, and there will unfortunately be more and more of them. It's a sad reality of all online marketplaces, forums and other user-powered online services that abuse grows along with the service, at a rate that's probably more geometric than linear -- as the bad guys catch on to where the action is.  Simply put, they go fishing where the fish are. I wrote a blog post on this subject, informed by my experiences at eHarmony and MySpace (product) (http://bottomlinelawgroup.com/20...).

There's nothing about the online world that makes it magically immune to the kinds of horrible things that people do to each other offline. There's a reason every online dating site is full of reminders and tips about safety. That doesn't mean Airbnb is built on a bad business model or is destined to fail -- far from it -- but if I were them I'd invest heavily in an abuse team and manage user feedback with extreme care. eBay faces many of the same challenges, and has been enormously successful. Airbnb by its nature is more like a combination of eBay and an online dating site (with the potential for all kinds of in-person, offline interactions that could be harmful or even violent). Everything from fraud to identity theft to unsafe or unsanitary conditions to violent crime could happen -- and, with large enough numbers, will happen sooner or later. (That said, the probability of them happening to you is probably very low.)

The fundamental challenges of any service that matches people up for in-person interaction or commerce are the same: Identity verification and background checking. To do anything resembling a halfway decent job at those things in all cases introduces barriers to new users that are high enough to destroy the business model. That's why none of the major dating or social sites rely on such things. I don't want to pick on Airbnb here; similar businesses like peer-to-peer car rental, etc. pose similar risks. It's important that entrepreneurs creating these new businesses resist the utopian fantasy that all users will be as well-intentioned and honest as they are, and in fact plan for the worst-case scenarios that come with scale.
A$A$A
Recently, we had a terrible experience with our Airbnb host. My husband had booked an apartment from a lady who was renting out an outhouse (small apartment) behind her home. The price wasn't reasonable either. We had to pay nearly 150 dollars per night stay.

Here it starts:

I went to take a shower in the morning. Few minutes into the shower, hot water stopped! Halfway through the shower, I had to finish since the water was terribly cold. Now, the landlady neither picks up the phone nor responds to text messages for a while. After 20 minutes, she says there is no way for the hot water to stop in few minutes and may be I was washing my hair (which I was not and even if I did, I have shoulder length hair), so the hot water must have stopped. That's a lame reason Ms. Landlady! We waited for another 30 minutes. There was no hot water. My husband had to forgo his morning shower and we went on a bike tour in LA for six hours.

       Now you can imagine, how much we were in need of shower after six hour bike tour in a day! Meanwhile Ms. Landlady had sent a very rude email saying, we must have turned on the shower for a long time or must have not used it properly which caused the hot water to stop.

       Once we came back, my husband wanted to monitor how long we could get hot water. So, this time he turned on then stop watch. Again, I tried to hurry up my shower and we saw that after 9 minutes it stopped. Atleast I had finished taking my shower this time :).

      Again, the landlady, even though she was home, she didn't respond to our phone calls or messages.

I understand we shouldn't pervade one's privacy. But if you are using a service like airbnb, the hosts should be available to address the guests' problems anytime. Hotels have people at the front desk to address our problems and take the next course of action! Atleast respond to guests' phone calls on time! We are not staying for free. We do pay for the stay.

Fun starts now:

       She lets her dogs out to check if we are still home and takes them in after confirming. My poor husband, without shower and I head for dinner. From the sound of the opening gate and the front lights, it's obvious to her that we have left. We were in our car thinking what we could do now. Luckily we hadn't started. Now, Ms landlady calls since she thinks we had left. We trapped her!!!! She was shocked that we were still outside. Finally she reveals the truth:

     The geyser in the apartment heats a next batch of cold water every 25 or so minutes. This wasn't clear in her listing. But unfortunately, there was something wrong with the geyser and it had stopped functioning properly. Meaning, it would take more than one hour to heat next batch of water. Also it would fetch the hot water only for nine  minutes at a time!

        Now since she was trapped red handed, she was sorry about the situation and tried to reduce the total fee by 50 dollars as a bribe, I guess.  What hurt us the most was:

1. Things weren't made clear in the airbnb listing.

2. When we tried to reach her (not during odd hours), she wouldn't respond even if she was home. If we were in a hotel, we could call the front desk anytime to get things resolved.

3. Even if she responded later, she thought we were lying! That's ridiculous.

After such a terrible experience, no more Airbnb for us! Atleast in hotels, there are routine checks, good customer service and anonymity in yelp reviews. My husband was worried to drop a bad review since all our information is on the airbnb website and she could misuse it! Since I saw other people writing openly on quora, I decided not to make my answer anonymous!
A$A$A
I've had a horrible experience as a renter. I was visiting Chicago the same week as a 50,000 person oncology conference. There were no hotels rooms in the city, minus $600+/night rooms at luxury hotels. I booked a space through Airbnb about two months before. Three days before I arrived, the host canceled on me. I told airbnb about the issue, and they got in touch with me within the day, promising they'd find me another place to stay.

I never heard from them again. All they offered for my troubles was a $50 credit toward the next place I could find. Not surprisingly, there were no other Airbnb spaces available for that weekend (I had rented an entire apartment). I ended up staying at a friend's house, who was out of town, but if that hadn't been an option, I'm not sure what I would have done.

There is almost no accountability for hosts who cancel. Airbnb told me that if they cancel 3 times, they aren't allowed to post until they've completed some sort of video training with an Airbnb staff member. That's three vacations or trips ruined. I wouldn't risk it again - no accountability on their end.
A$A$A
I just had my first experience as an Airbnb host. I was really excited to try it out - cleaned my house like crazy, took some pictures, wrote up a house manual and bought new sheets, towels ...

In retrospect, I should have suspected trouble from the get-go. The guest wanted to pay me in cash rather than go through Airbnb and I told her that I was only accepting people through Airbnb.

Before she even arrived, a package had come in the mail for her from India. Granted, I never put "No mail" on my  house rules so I let it go.

Once she arrived, with no car, she locked herself in the bedroom. I saw her very briefly  over the course of 4 days. When I did see her, I was polite, asking her if everything was okay, if she needed groceries or help since she had no car, how previous visits had gone before, how she liked Airbnb. She was very distant and removed, hardly giving me answers which was just fine - I respect a person's need for privacy and space.

The trouble was just beginning. I did not receive payment from her for all of the days she had requested and so I had to ask her to leave. It was incredibly uncomfortable. That night, she informed me that another pharmaceutical shipment from India was coming and that I would need to send it to her. At that point I told her that I had wished she had asked permission before shipping things to my home. This was going to create an inconvenience for me since I don't get out of work before the post office closes and I am often away on weekends. But, rather than apologize or show some kind of gratitude (since I did say I would be willing), she got incredibly angry at me.

The next day, I came home and she was gone. But not before leaving the garbage literally overflowing with food so that it was spilling everywhere. My room was a shambles, the towels left on the bathroom floor and she left a fair amount of food in my fridge (which I was clear about in the "rules" section - please take any food you bring in with you.)

I just received an awful review from her - she said that I was asking lots of questions and was incredibly suspicious. (I was trying to be friendly and make some light conversation.) She said my house was "dusty, dusty, dusty!" (I had my house cleaned and I personally spent hours making sure things were impeccable - I even scrubbed out the closet.)

The thing is - this was my very first experience and it was just awful. I ended up with someone who turned out to be a nightmare! I had visitors last weekend as well and I am quite sure they will leave me a good review but I feel as thought the damage has been done.

I did reply to her after she reviewed me but I am not sure people are interested in hosts who get that kind of negativity. Does anyone have any advice? I put so much into getting my beautiful home ready only to be rated poorly.

Thanks.
A$A$A
We (my wife, three year old daughter and I) go to Berlin once a year or so to go listen to concerts of the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra.

After our usual, lovely self catering spot in Berlin's Wilmersdorf district closed down, I decided to look for a place on Airbnb. After a long search, I found a place near the Nollendorfplatz U-bahn station, near a supermarket and some restaurants.  We booked it for 10 nights.

When are arrived, we found an old building, with a lift whose stops serve two floors. I.e., it stops halfway between the floors and then one walks up or down a flight of stairs to get to the floor.  The apartment was fairly spacious.

Nevertheless, that afternoon I set off to the Philharmonie to go listen to a fantastic concert performance of Wagner's Tristan und Isolde.  After it finished, I took a bus back to the apartment. It was about a five minute walk from the bus stop. And there the disillusionment started: the whole street was lined with sex workers eager for some business. I had to listen to "Hallo, Schatzie, hasst du Lust?" (Hi, dear, do you want some?) all the way to the apartment. When I arrived, my wife had of course already witnessed the scene and we contemplated moving.  I was even prepared to take the financial knock of the host's moderate Airbnb policy. I then informed the host that this is not acceptable for a family. He sent me this reply: I am nötig in Germany, I am in Spain, the area is totally safe. In Germany things are very different to were you come from, prostition is totally legal in our country and protected by law. (sic). Prostitution is, of course, legal in South Africa as well.  That does not mean I want it in my face, much less my daughter's. (There are actually serious concerns about human trafficking of Eastern European women in Germany).

We left it there and decided to ignore the sex workers and focus on the visit.

After a few days, the apartment was becoming a little dirty since there were no cleaning materials for us to clean it. So, I got in touch with our host again and asked him about the cleaning materials.

He sent this reply: The Cleaning Lady will come again when cleaning up for your leave , so you so not have to clean,you can leave the Place als it is and there is no extra charge. (sic)

I replied saying we would actually like to clean up before, so he generously agreed to send the cleaning lady to open the closet where he kept the cleaning materials so we could clean up.

After we left, the host quickly wrote a review which I couldn't read until I wrote my review, which I only did about 10 days later.  And this was his charming review: Very difficult guest, complained all the time, next time before you book read the ad carefully and the internet, not more than one star and that is even too much.  And I only got to see that after I wrote a fairly flattering review of Thomas thanking him of attending to all our queries.  Of course, his ad mentions nothing about the street being lined with prostitutes or that no cleaning materials are available.  There were many other issues as well that I didn't even mentioned to him, like unreliable warm water, a broken shower, and a broken washing machine).  And I know Berlin VERY well!  Now, if being surprised by discovering your holiday accommodation is in a red light district, and that you won't be able to clean it for 10 days make me a difficult guest, I am very happy to be branded as such.

I then complained to Airbnb that his review is false and misleading, but they just replied that it does not breach their review policies therefore it will stay there.  As a result, I deleted my Airbnb account and will never use the service again.

When I cancelled my account, Airbnb asked me for the reasons and I quote my whole response here:

I have used Airbnb once only for a stay in Berlin. The apartment was in the middle of a red light district. I complained to the host that that was not acceptable.  We stayed there for 10 days and he had left no cleaning materials. I then enquired about it because the apartment was becoming very dirty. At first he said that the cleaning lady would come clean after we left. I then advised him that we want to clean it while we were still there. Thereafter he wrote a scathing review of me, saying I complained about everything and that I was the worst guest ever.That was simply not true but as Airbnb feels that lies about guests are permissible, this is no longer a service that appeals to me. The risks of dealing with unreasonable hosts who believe guests must be grateful for whatever they throw at them to avoid getting a negative review is just too great.  The fact that you tolerate lies in your reviews makes your service simply unconscionable. I have a second house in a prime area in Cape Town that I wanted to list on Airbnb, but after this experience, I never want any dealings with Airbnb again. I'm going back to http://Booking.com. Cheers!

After this experience, I have come to the conclusion that Airbnb has the following negative points:

It tolerates false and lying reviews (jeopardizing the member's chances unreasonably of finding guests or hosts in the future);

You cannot leave a rented space without some kind of penalty, even if you discover lots of negative attributes about the space. Basically, you can only cancel if you have to flee for your life.  There are serious issues with transparency;

Members are basically forced to grin and bear pathetic service out of fear of getting a negative review;

Since the hosts are often not experienced in customer satisfaction, there is the real possibility that have no clue about providing an all round pleasant experience nor in resolving any issues that guests may have. 

So, I'm back to looking for accommodation on Booking and Google.
A$A$A
In fairness, "horror" would be an overstatement so let me not be dramatic about it. NYC was having a extra busy week, my normal hotel went from $200-$250 to over $500 per night. OK, Airbnb to the rescue.

Booking was easy, had lots of choices under $200.  Decided on upper west side for $120ish per night. Lots of communication before I left.  As I land in NYC early (thanks United) I get a text, there is a problem, we need to switch your apartment. OK. 

Go to apartment and wait outside for about 30 minutes - OK. Up to now, the experience was good not great.

The apartment was not good. Random furniture, closets stuffed with "stuff" and the bed was covered in plastic and made noise when you laid on it. The bed fell off the blocks it was on in the middle of the night. Bed covering was random and didn't fit. Least comfortable bed ever. The bathroom was disgusting and the stack of towels was moist. Net-Net, a deal relative to hotel but not matching the description. I got the vibe it was a management company doing bait and switch with good looking apartments and cheap apartments.

Airbnb needs to institute quality control to weed out the companies that are using this bait and switch tactic. If they truly have all the same level of apartments then fine, switch away, but that was not the case. Also, this makes the individuals that just rent out their extra home or their home when they are away look bad.
A$A$A
I had a similar problem to Laura Oppenheimer. I made a reservation in Barcelona for last September and, two days before my arrival, the host cancelled the reservation. I only received an automatic notification of the cancellation: no apology or personal message from the host.

It was very difficult to find another place to stay in the same area of Barcelona (i.e. within walking distance of the beaches), in high season, at such short notice. Airbnb offered me an extra credit amounting to 20% of the original price I paid, but that turned out not to be quite sufficient for the replacement I eventually found. The difficulty in finding another property was compounded by the fact that a host has 48 hours to accept a reservation you make on the site: pretty nerve-wracking when you have less than 48 hours left until your arrival date!

Another problem I had following this was that the host of the first property I tried to book as a replacement after receiving notification of the cancellation didn't press the right button to turn down my booking but instead send me a message of apology that she couldn't rent it to me on those dates. She obviously had good intentions but this actually created a mess w.r.t. my Airbnb payments and the refund process. It also meant that I could not longer get an immediate refund of my original reservation to pay for a new one (which wasn't actually a problem for me but it certainly could have been for someone on a tighter budget). My 20% credit was not available any more either. I waited a few weeks after my return to see if I'd receive the correct refund automatically from Airbnb without any extra hassle for me, but nothing happened, so I had to contact Airbnb and exchange a few messages with them to make them understand what the problem was and sort things out. It turns out that you don't automatically get a refund for a reservation that was cancelled by the host, you have to ask for it!

According to the information on Airbnb's website, hosts are not penalized for unilaterally cancelling reservations, even at very short notice, as long as they don't do it often. They don't even get charged the credit offered by Airbnb as compensation, which is instead paid out of Airbnb's pocket!

The property which was cancelled is this place: Luxury stay center, Born ★★★★ in Barcelona, which had excellent reviews (on this page: Luxury stay center, Born & beach in Barcelona - same property). The worst thing about it is perhaps that if the host cancels your reservation, then you're not allowed to leave a review on the property or the host!

I had a very good opinion of  AirBnB before and, although this was a sobering experince, I probably will still use then again in the future, as there aren't many alternative for the particular service and product they provide (holiday rentals as individual apartments, not part of a holiday complex, and for periods shorter than a week). But I think I'll be treading more carefully, somehow.
A$A$A
As a guest I've never had any horror stories. As a host, I had was very recently, an older man from the Middle East who didn't have any concept about the idea of AirBnB being not merely a place to sleep but also to meet locals and learn about local culture. He did not like that I am a woman living alone and asked me many intimate personal questions, how much money I make, my mortgage. He demanded the security code of my place and treated me like his slave - demanded I do his laundry, make phone calls for him, wash his dishes, etc, and when I informed him that I would not do so, he got angry and said, "In my country women do all that, why not you?" and swore at me. He constantly ogled at me and it was extremely uncomfortable. Yes it may have been cultural differences - Middle East vs. North America - but his behavior was NOT acceptable.

I called a male friend of mine to come over and his presence around was enough for this offensive guest to shut up and behave better. I also left a scathing review of this guest on AirBnB as a warning to other hosts, especially female hosts.
A$A$A
Plenty of stories in a short span. I hosted a guest who booked for 1 person and 6 people showed up at my doorstep. So finally, I drop all other things I had planned for the day and make arrangements for other people to stay. They were a bunch of college kids and needless to say entitled and irresponsible. They smoked in the house and claimed that patio is not the house and they were being careful about smoking. They got pretty drunk in the night and broke toilet seat cover. I raised it to Airbnb and they tell me that unless there is a physical damage (smoking is not counted), they can't help the case. And ofcourse the guest declined to pay. Airbnb closed the case since they asked for receipts for repaid and I'm expected to respond within 48 hours every single time. I obliged except for one time when I was in Death Valley in the middle of nowhere and no access to Internet or cellphone connection. Ironically it was an Airbnb. Since I didn't send a response in 48 hours they closed the case. Period. I told customer care that I'm not going to keep fixing things unless they will give me some confirmation that damages will be covered. The customer care person has the balls to ask me - “if the toilet seat cover is not fixed, how can other guests stay comfortably at your place ? You should first fix it regardless”. I'm like “what makes you think I'll continue hosting through Airbnb ?” So after so much back and forth, Airbnb will not do anything once the trip is over.
A$A$A
The following story is my airbnb nightmare story:

My guest texted me asking about the status of the plumbing, which was the first time that I had heard about this plumbing issue. He mentioned that his girlfriend was supposed to contact me days before but failed to do so.

Immediately after my guest texted me, I stopped by the house to check up on this plumbing situation. I knocked on the door and his girlfriend ask who was at the door. After I identified myself, there was silence and she did not open the door. This was when I proceeded to examine the premise of the property and noticed that the back sliding door and window was open. I knocked and made sure that she was aware that I was coming in. This was when she came out of the bedroom and introduced herself.

She was clearly on some sort of drugs, I believe it she was on Methamphetamine as she had some of the behavioral symptoms: isolation, some physical shaking and verbal nervousness in her tone of voice, insomnia (all the beds were made and appeared to have never been used), open sores on her face, furniture had been moved around in disorderly fashion and messy. As soon as I got this vibe I evacuated the house immediately.

The following day, I’ve tried to contact my guest several times via email/ phone/ text and he did not reply. I proceeded to contact Airbnb (company) help to assist with the situation. They were only able to help with the administrative part of coordinating refunds and booking the guest in another location, in addition to the verbal affirmation that the world will be OK.

I was able to only communicate with my guest via their airbnb account so I told them that they had to evacuate the property immediately given the "plumbing" situation. They told me that they would leave that evening.

I showed up that evening, and the girlfriend was still living at the house. The girlfriend told me that she was waiting for her boyfriend to come home. I told her no problem and ask that she send me a text to let me know when she would check out. She never text me back.

I went back to the house the next morning to check up and the girlfriend was still at the house. I asked if everything was OK. She told me that she and her boyfriend got into a fight and he never picked her up. I said I was sorry to hear and ask if she needed anything. She said no and finally departed late that afternoon.

I proceeded to examine the house for any evidence of drugs or issues ... I thought I saw meth on the kitchen counter, then examined more closely, just salt ... I had clearly been watching too many episodes of Breaking Bad (TV series).
A$A$A
I was an early AirBnB host. I had been a Couchsurfing host so when Airbnb came along, I thought it was a great option since I'd be making a little money instead of just spending money on guests who never seemed to acknowledge that reality.

I met some great people from all over the world who were lovely guests, several of whom stay in contact. However, after seveal unpleasant experiences, enough was enough!

There was the German woman who was trying out several different neighborhoods with her husband ahead of their relocating to San Francisco. She decided raiding my cabinet and helping herself to my food to make a picnic for a friend she invited into my home without my knowledge was acceptable because she left $5 on the table. Meanwhile, they packed breakable dinnerware and flatware, cloth napkins, and my dinner for a trip to the beach. Fortunately, they left the next morning. Her American husband was at least embarrassed and apologetic.

The Japanese yoga student traveling the world who decided to take my personal yoga mat to use at a class without my permission.

The American-Chinese girl who oiled her feet then left oily footprints on  my newly professinally shampooed wall-to-wall carpeting.

But, the straw that broke the camel's back was the American woman in her 60's from Tennessee. Regularly visits her son who lives in a studio and thrilled to ginally get a reservation with me, she said she's out all day and very neat. Yes, that's great as I work from home and I expected guests to spend their days out sightseeing. Only a brief walk and then, a long bath in the shared bathroom and a long nap. She brought her own cleaning supplies and decided to clean the spotless bathroom walls one day when I was out. Okayyyy. So, it was with great surprise that on the monring she was leaving, she'd made her bed instead of stripping the sheets...until I pulled back the covers to a large red stain on the top sheet that went through the blanket. I realized then I didn't have her number. Wishing it was red wine, I knew it was blood. I'd overheard her tell her son that a wound on her knew wouldn't stop bleeding.

Airbnb at that time shared all host's emails with their guest so , of course, she lied about the blood, saying she was unaware of it. Really?! After rummaging through my linen closet for bandages, etc.? After being so meticulous about everything else? Airbnb was no help and violated any vestige of confidentiality I though, as a host, I would have. Fortunately, the son paid for replacing the bed linens and blankets.

But, the combination of rude, clueless, self-entitled "guests" in my home and Airbnb's crappy resolution management was enough to insist they permanently delete my account after repeated requests to just deactivate for a time.

As a neighbor of other Airbnb hosts, it continues to be annoying to have scarce parking spaces on the street "reserved" for their guests or others who just discard unwanted items, e.g. luggage, clothing, in the backyards where they remain.
A$A$A
I have been hosting guests, and let me tell you a few stories.

1 A Saudi traveler did not understood how the hallogen cooking device was working, he was tired. He slept during the cooking. There was lot of smokes. Unfortunately at that time the smoke detector did not function ( probably my fault), and so an exagerated smoke waked up the guest. He did not thought in the panic to open windows so he opened the door of the flat. Immediatly my neighbourghs who try to do all bad things about my hosting business called police and firemen who went together to see the flat. Fortunately only the pot and food had burnt, but the smoke stayed in the corridor for 10 days, adding rage of the neighbourghs to live in smokes or fire burnt smells. I could not rent the flat for a few days , and the next guest mentioned that my flat was smelling too much smokes of cigarettes.

2. It was the begining of my rental business, and I accepted some guests from another website WIMDU . The guests from the suburb of the city . Bad idea. They drank too much, vomited on the walls, at 1 am some girls tits unnaked were crying and shouting (doing noises) at the ground floor. Neighbourghs called the Police. Fortunately nobody came ( what a luck).

3. Guests are leaving 90 percent of the time the flat in an horrible way. I charge heavy cleaning fees in the advertisement as cleaning takes usually 4 hours of work for the staff. A guest from also the suburb of the city found that exagerated ( it is part of the price simply), and decided to do a floor party, all furnitures were left with white powder. Cleaning had to be done 3 times. I was able to charge extra money because of the deposit...

4. A guest from Czeck also when I was a junior pretending that he could not find the garage. The garage door is of course is on the street, it is very stupid

to buy peace I offered him 2 extra bottles of wine (there were already 2 for welcome). He said they were not good, So he drank the total of 20 bottles, Surprised then that I charged him on the deposit....He then told me they did a porn video in my flat and offered me to send to me a video. He then said it was a joke as I claimed with AIRBNB

5. A guest blackmailed me asking 1500 euro of refund, I refused. Yes at that time internet was not working. The guest added some stupidities like microwave not working, hoover not clean, even if this was reimplaced immediatly. Ok they were 3  lights bulbs which had broken and need to be reimplaced. It may happen with electrical instability or the same age for old light bulbs so they broke together. What ever. The travel claimed to AIRBNB and to my bad surprise adding some stupid things ( tv was satellite and not cable, some glasses were broken by a previous guest, scratch on some pots, humidity ( just need to turn on AC) as it is very common near the sea,...

That was enough for AIRBNB to cancel the stay for the next day and also to charge only 50 percent  for the days spent. It means that was they were 10 they paid 100 euro per day for a villa with swimming pool, AC, Jacuzzi. Very bad business as already the prices were discounted.
A$A$A
I had an experience recently that wasn't bad, but I felt the guest was intentionally vague, and I wasn't sure how to help prevent it happening in the future with other guests without seeming completely insensitive.

I had a booking request from a woman who was travelling to NY with her teenage daughter.   After a few rounds of emails with questions asked and answered, the mother indicated that her daughter had a 'slight' disability, and sometimes used a wheelchair (folding) but really only when tired.   I immediately replied that my listing was most definitely not wheelchair accessible and that the house was not handicap-friendly.  Steps to enter the house, staircase to the guest rooms, no handrails in bathrooms, etc. The guest replied that this was no problem at all, the daughter could walk, had no other issues at all, just used the chair when tired.   She also indicated that the daughter really loved the pictures, and knew exactly the situation.   She had her heart set on this listing.  Fine - booking processed.

Mother and daughter show up, get settled, and then immediately call me.   Can I please move some of the furniture so that the chair can have better access?  Sigh.  Yes.   Next day - can we take one of your chairs (Jackson metal tub chairs) into the shower, as the daughter needs to sit down to bathe.  Sigh. No.  Back I go with a plastic chair.  On and on with special requests all week, which I obliged, although begrudgingly, because I felt bad for the young girl who just wanted to have a vacation in New York.  In the end, we had a broken toilet handle, two broken towel rods (she was using the towel rod to support her weight) that I'm having a tough time replacing, and tire marks all over the floor that had to be scrubbed away.  

The reason for my ire is that I feel the mother intentionally misled me regarding the severity of her daughters condition so that I'd accept the booking, and then once she was in place, guilted me into making various concessions that I would not normally have had to make.... and in the process, putting her daughter through more of a headache than needed.   I wish that there was a place in the review process that was something like "important info for future hosts" that was not visible to public, only to hosts.  At least in this way I could have made some notation other than the option of replying No to the 'would you recommend this guest'.
A$A$A
Having a horrible time hosting at the moment and not sure what I can do other than to sit it out - Airbnb are being incredibly and unsurprisingly unresponsive.

2 Russian girls are staying - first off, they demanded that I meet them at the airport. Obviously this goes well beyond the requirements of any host. Secondly, when arranging for the pickup of the keys, I stated that I worked only around the corner so timing was flexible, but the only time I couldn't do that day was 11-12 because I had a meeting. Lo and behold, I was contacted multiple times just after 11am to meet. I ran quickly there after the meeting but it was annoying to have made that one small clarification and then to have it immediately violated.

The girls, since their arrival last Tuesday, have been leaving all lights on, even on the sunny days; leaving rubbish and dirty underwear in the shared areas of the flat; leaving the cooker hobs and heating on high, unattended for the whole day; making loud noises audible through the walls; leaving evidence of menstruation all over the bathroom; and leaving the flat in a general state of mess and uncleanliness.

As far as bad experiences go, it is not the worst by far. However, I don't feel comfortable or safe in my own home, I don't want to have to keep cleaning up after them nor live in a pigsty, and I just want them out. They clearly have no respect for others' property, and are treating this place like their own home in the worst possible way. Since Airbnb are keeping schtum, what options do I have as a host? There seems to be zero advice on how hosts can deal with unsavoury guests :(
A$A$A
I host many guests, but always in separate apartments, never in my living space.  While most of my guests have been great, I've had some that were problems.  The biggest  just left after 3 months.  First, they absolutely refused to turn off the lights, even when they weren't home. This cost me around $300 a month beyond my usual bill.  The same guest had requested having a dog stay.  They wrote:  "We would be happy to do extra cleaning when we leave to make sure there's no trace of the dog left behind."  In fact, they left an absolutely revolting layer of fur that covered the entire apartment.  When I raised the matter, they complained that my vacuum was inadequate, though no vacuum was ever offered when they promised there'd be " no trace of the dog left behind." Additionally, the dog chewed and/or clawed a sofa bed to the point that it must be thrown out.  I've submitted the damages to Airbnb and now waiting to see if their "host guarantee" will take care of it.  It's been a revolting experience so far.
A$A$A
I have a had a few as a host, and recently been thrown several curve balls. I am currently still in dispute with one guest, and seriously considering dropping out of the AirBnb game.

Things started off well enough. My first set of of guests were really nice. They accidently broke a vase, but were most apologetic, and offered to pay immediately. ( I declined, but they left a nice bottle of wine as ‘payment’ anyway.) They also left a great review.

Unfortunately this lulled me into something of a false sense of security, and I thought that all guests would be of a similar ilk. Boy was I wrong. A few weeks later Pepe and his posse from Spain landed.

He was booked to stay for 2 nights - Aug 15/16

He and his 3 friends arrived on the morning of the 15th at 08.00 am without prior warning of such an early arrival time.

I explained that they couldn't check in immediately as we had guests already who would be leaving around 11, and asked that they return at 12.00 midday.

The other guests actually checked out a bit early so we immediately began prepping/cleaning the house and rooms. A short time later we heard the sounds of 'singing' and guitar playing coming from downstairs. Pepe and friends had decided to come back early, let themselves in and treat us to an impromptu performance.

I felt a little uneasy about things at this point, but since I was new to the whole AirBnB hosting thing, I welcomed them in anyway, & showed them round the house. With the benefit of hindsight I wish I had trusted my instinct, and shown them the way out.

I live in a separate/self contained downstairs part of the house, which is probably just as well- hate to think of what may have happened if I had just left them to it.

Almost immediately there was lots of banging/shouting/arguing and more guitar playing (mine) and 'singing'. Then Pepe knocked at my door wanting use the phone. His mobile he said was broken.

He disappeared with it, and after 20 mins or so, it was so rowdy upstairs that my 7 year old son was becoming visibly upset, so I went up to see what was going on, and to retrieve my phone.

They were obviously in high spirits, & drinking spirits of the strong, distilled variety.They were also smoking. I asked them to calm things a bit, and confine the smoking to the terrace (as is clearly stated in my listing.)

Things quietened down for a short while, but then the arguing/shouting/banging/crashing kicked off again, and once more I went up to investigate. I entered the main bedroom to find a red faced very irate Pepe stomping back and forth, hurling abuse at his girlfriend who it seemed had taken refuge beneath the duvet and was trying to ignore him and sleep. I know nothing of their relationship, and I don't understand much Spanish, but my presence seemingly did nothing to stem the flow of verbal abuse in her direction, and I began to become concerned for her safety also.

After a few minutes Pepe decided to give it up and announced that he needed music and sleep. Apparently these needs would be best served in his car, and so off he went.

Peace again. But only for a short time. Shortly after lunch he reappeared, and within a few minutes the slanging match (heated arguing) recommenced.

The shouting increased in intensity and then followed several loud crashes and the sound of something breaking.

I ran upstairs to find the bed split in half, and the girl crying.

At this point I asked them to leave, then ran downstairs to take my son across to a neighbours house to ensure that he was out of harms way should the situation deteriorate further.

When I returned a few minutes later his friends were already packed and making their way out, but Pepe refused to leave until he was refunded in full. I explained that this had to done through the AirBNB channels and that obviously there was damage to my property which had to be paid for. (At that moment I was only aware of the damage to the bed but subsequently found that there was also damage to other furniture and my glass framed photography).

The argument between us became heated, and it became obvious that he wasn't going to leave except under duress, and so I decided to call the Police. (I also sent AirBnB a message alerting them to the situation via the AirBnB mobile app to which I received no response to date but we will come back to that..)

90 min later or so the Police finally arrived...

The transformation in Pepe's character was remarkable. He became quietly spoken, polite, and deferential.

Apparently much of what happened was my fault and he had only wanted a quiet rest. I hadn't heard any banging or arguing, that must have been the neighbours. The broken bed, he was insistent, simply broke while he sleeping on it.

He wasn't even having sex or anything like that and he performed a little mime of the action (both the sleeping and copulation lest we be in any doubt.)

The French police - there were 3 of them but only apparently one with a functioning brain- were impressed (actually so was I ), and seemed to be agreeing with him that it was probably because the bed was old ( I bought it new 3 years ago) and already weakened from all the previous copulatory activity that had occurred thereon. (I wish).

After much discussion they reluctantly agreed that Pepe should leave, but first I had to reimburse him for his non-stay.

At this point I had given up all hope of extracting damages for the bed, but was just desperate to get the guy, and Le Law out of my house. I explained to them that the only way I could reimburse him was through the AirBNb website, and that this was seemingly further complicated by the fact that according to AirBnB he had already 'checked in'. Pepe was insistent that he wouldn't leave until he had seen proof of cancellation. I told him to simply cancel it himself via his mobile phone, but of course as we already know that was broken..so I let him onto my computer and he logged onto AirBnb and cancelled, but then he couldn't access his hotmail account -to see the email proof of cancellation, confirmation, because hotmail was sending him a SMS log-in code which of course he couldn't receive on his non-functional mobile..

Eventually the Police woman with the brain suggested that he borrow his friends mobile, and switch sim cards.

This finally worked and finally Pepe was able to see his proof of cancellation.

There were tears and hugs as everybody said their final goodbyes. Actually I made the first and last part of that sentence up.

Finally I showed them all the door, and Pepe walked off into the sunset, at which point I realised he still had the house keys and so had to go running after him. He couldn't find them on his person or in his bags, so I (very) reluctantly had to bring him back to the house to search for them.. By this time I was beginning to feel as though I was in a Tarantino movie and this was the epilogue.

Finally he located the key, and with a level stare handed it to me.

'You know I'm an expert in Karate'

"I know", I said. "I've seen my bed."

All joking aside. I think I got off fairly lightly.

A broken bed.

A broken Arabic rocking chair from my time in Dubai, of sentimental rather than great monetary value.

A broken picture frame.

Nobody hurt, physically at least.

But it sure gave me reservations about my reservations policy. I stopped taking Instant Bookings and always vet people much more thoroughly via a few emails before accepting a booking now. Even this isnt a fail safe guarantee (Pepe was a host with apparently good references,which I took note of in accepting his reservation).

In the end AirBnb didn’t do much - other than advise me to increase the amount of my security for damages deposit. And they said they had barred Pepe although I nver verified if this was indeed the case.

Since then I haven’t had anything quite as dramatic, but still a fair few incidents which I will maybe write about another time (The one where the ‘nice’ family kids painted the bedsheets with oil based non-washable paints comes to mind..) Currently as a I said at the start of this piece I am embroiled in a dispute with my last guest who took my brand new torch from the side of the fridge camping with them then ‘forgot’ to return, and are now saying they aren’t going to because they had been awoken by ‘noise’ too many times during their stay -something they had neglected to mention or complain about during the several times I enquired how the stay was going when I saw them. Who was it said ‘Hell is Other People”?..
A$A$A
My most recent experience with Airbnb points out that both hosts and guests can really get burned due to Airbnb's irresponsible reviewing policies and procedures. Any host or guest can leave the other a negative review and unless it gets into a very limited set of banned behavior (slander, etc.), Airbnb won't remove or edit the review. In my case, I stayed with a host that had misrepresented her place. The kitchen faucet only let out a trickle of water. The towels and dishes were dirty. The "shower" was a hand shower in a bathtub, missing fire alarms, etc. Airbnb agreed that this rental did not meet their standards. They refunded me a little money and so did the host (but I still paid about half the total fees). I left a review of the host's place based on the facts. In turn, she left a retaliatory review of me as a guest, saying that I am unreasonably picky (and it is implied that hosts should be afraid that I will leave them bad reviews too). Airbnb won't remove it even though it damages my ability to rent from any new host. A friend of mine who is a host says this is also problematic for her. She feels that if she leaves honest feedback that could benefit the community, she will have her business hurt by retaliatory reviews (she's obviously smarter than I am since she figured this out before experiencing it personally). Airbnb really needs to address this problem before it alienates its users. There are plenty of crazies out there on both the host and guest side of things. Ideally, the reviewing system should allow people to avoid them by seeing their previous reviews. But if people can't review honestly for fear of retaliatory reviews, these crazies stay in the system and the risk is higher for all of us.
A$A$A
My friend and her husband booked their second honeymoon in the Smoky Mountains through Airbnb. The booked a 2 bedroom cabin for themselves - not a share. They arrived to their lodgings to find the place looking like someone was already staying there -- beds unmade, dirty dishes on the table, etc. They contacted the host who told them that the maid must not have made it to the cabin yet to clean the place, and he offered to buy them dinner at a local restaurant owned by a friend of his and would make sure the place was cleaned up while they were out.

Host was good to his word and when they returned the place was clean and the sheets had been changed. My friend and her husband unpacked their belongings and groceries, opened a bottle of wine and went out on the deck to have a glass and admire the lights of the nearby town.

Twenty minutes later the host walks out on the deck, they never saw his car arrive, never heard him knock. He pours himself a glass of wine without being invited and starts chatting like it was a party. My friend said she and her hubby were so stunned they really didn't know what to say...they just thought it was southern charm (they are from Pennsylvania) and didn't want to offend the host.

Host stays for another two hours and while they each have one more glass of wine he polishes off that bottle and opens another bottle of THEIR wine and finishes it too. As he drinks he gets louder and more boisterous, and finally they have to all but push him out the door in order to go to bed for the night. It spooked my friend so much she insisted that her husband put chairs under all the doorknobs.

The next morning they were up early for breakfast then a morning hike. They stopped at a cafe nearby and while chatting with a waitress told her where they were staying. The waitress seemed a little confused at first that they were staying at this guy's house, wondering where he was staying, etc. but figured he must be crashing with a friend. My friend and her husband thought that was a little weird, but okay.

They get back to the cabin after lunch and while doing things my friend discovers that someone has been in the bathroom and has showered while they were away -- the floor was wet and there were wet towels on the floor that she and her husband did not leave. They called the host and he apologized and said yes, where he was staying did not have a shower so he stopped by and took one while they were out. Apparently according to my friend he also used her husband's electric razor and his cologne.

That night they were grilling steaks outside when the host showed up again on the deck, again no knock, no car pulling up, he just came out of nowhere. Again he stuck around and stuck around so my friends finally invited him to eat with them even though they had only bought two steaks so they had to divvy them up three ways. He drank more of their wine and stayed really late, and again had to be almost escorted off of the property.

At this point my friends are getting really upset, so they emailed Airbnb the next morning. My friend's hubby started wondering if the host was staying nearby, so he went outside and started looking around for a trail or anything, and after a few minutes found one going into the woods. He followed it for about 30 yards and found a small clearing with a tent in it. He walked up to the tent and their host was still asleep inside of it.

They were gone most of the day on a drive through the mountains and talked a lot about what to do next. The host obviously had rented his own house out and was staying in the tent behind the house while they were there, but he was really beginning to be a pain and they were not enjoying their honeymoon at all because having this guy wander in and out of the house was NOT conducive to intimacy. Finally they decided that if he showed up that evening that they were going to confront him and ask him to leave them alone for the rest of the trip. Considering they were paying $125 a night they thought this was reasonable.

Well, to their surprise when they got back after dinner the host was nowhere to be seen. They had a nice evening on the deck, and after a while the husband decided he was sleepy and wanted to go to sleep, but my friend decided to stay up for a while because it was a really nice night. About an hour after hubby went to bed my friend heard a noise behind her, turned around and the host was there watching her. It creeped her out but she didn't know what to do, so she asked him why he kept coming into the house while they were staying there. When he answered it was obvious he was drunk, and he started telling her all of his personal business about he and his wife were getting a divorce and he lost his job and the only way he could pay his house payment was to rent it out on Airbnb and then he made a pass at my friend. At that point she went inside, woke her hubby up, he threw the guy out of the house, they packed up and went to a hotel for the night. The next day they came home early.

They never got a response from Airbnb. Never heard back, and they decided rather than pursue it they would chalk it up to a life lesson learned. BTW, the place had excellent reviews, everyone raved about the cottage and the views, but interestingly enough the reviews never mentioned anything about the host at all. Last my friend checked the house is still on Airbnb.
A$A$A
I’m running a small rental company. I’m an experienced host and I’ve advertised my properties on Airbnb since more than 3 years, in total 3 apartments and 7 rooms. I’ve received more than 500 excellent reviews from happy guests. Everything went well till the technical problems started to occur a few months ago. One day I suddenly couldn’t send or receive any messages from guests and potential guests. Nor was my calendar working properly. Being able to communicate with your guest and update your calendar is crucial to rent out, especially if you coordinate several properties.

Of course I immediately called Airbnb and explained the issues. A friendly customer service agent told me they would look into the problem immediately and she passed the case on. But as the days went by and the problems continued to occur, I contacted Airbnb again and asked about the status of my ticket. I was told my case was passed on to the technical department and I just had to wait. So I waited, for more days, and WEEKS.

And the problems started to pile up. As I could no longer communicate with guests through the airbnb system I had to make expensive calls to all guests to arrange their arrival and departure and other practical details. Worse was it to reach those guests with no phones and no visible email address on their profile, resulting in several lock outs and angry guests, and also bad reviews. Several times I tried to contact Airbnb regarding these severe issues, but all I got was the same response “we’re sorry for your problems, but we cannot do anything, you’ll just have to wait”. So I waited, for weeks and MONTHS. I wrote, called, yelled and begged, but no matter how much I stressed the urgency of the very bad situation I got the same answer from Airbnb customer service “we’re sorry, we cannot do anything, you’ll have to wait till the technical department decides to give your case priority”, and there was no way I could be put through to the people responsible for my problems. Those 3 months were a living hell, full of stress, angry guests and misunderstandings. Furthermore, my properties couldn’t be booked because of technical issues, causing a big loss of money.

Finally, after nearly 3 MONTHS the problems got fixed. I asked Airbnb to refund the extra expenses I had as a direct consequence of the technical issues, but those requests were ignored.

For those who doubt this story is true, I can provide screenshots of all written communication with airbnb customer service.

So, my message to you is: Never ever believe that Airbnb will help you if you need urgent technical assistance. You’ll probably be able to reach a customer service agent saying he / she is sorry, but you’ll never be able to get through to those people responsible for your problems.

I’m now using other, more reliable services, such as these good alternatives to Airbnb.
A$A$A
I've been using Airbnb for the last 3 years around the world and stayed at most places for 2-3 months.

So far, my experience with all hosts has been very positive. However I see that there are slowly more hosts abusing Airbnb, especially in cities like New York and  San Francisco. In these two cities, Airbnb hosts tend to think that their places are worth more than hotels and they are usually more expensive than hotels!

As with every online marketplace, it attracts people that solely want to "abuse" the good faith of others. It is a sad face of the Internet.

For my part, I've already started to use booking.com most of the time now as they have also added apartment listing (but with better protection for tenants).
A$A$A
I booked airbnb in paris. Private room. I paid 4 nights. I didn't understand that i had to mention 2 guests since friend of mine joint me suddenly. The host was very angry and didn't want to open the door even several times i pushed the bell. It was 3 a.m and just arrived from another country with 7200 miles with 2 big luggages. I was deadly tired. The room is dirty with personal stuffs of hers, especially in the shared bathroom.

Finally my friend opened the door, she's already inside, and the host get more furious. I told her, i just need a rest and will clarify everything tomorrow. She seems so reluctant. Early morning, i checked out and asked her not to return my money, for the rest nights. All i need was an proper accomodation and finally and easily get one which was cheaper than the Airbnb private room, but of course with privacy and flexibility.

It was a nightmare.

I think the comment of the guests sometimes misleading and only say recommended apt, they should say more frank ambiance of the appartment and the host hospitality.
A$A$A
A friend used Airbnb when visiting her daughter at Columbia University in NYC.

She stayed with an ancient woman in Harlem. The apartment was clean, but cluttered because the hostess was a bit of a hoarder.

My friend got up to go to the washroom in the middle of the night. She did not need to turn on the light because a night light was plugged into the wall.

She was sitting on the Loo and in “mid-stream” when she felt something cold and slimy crawling over her foot. She screamed at the top of her lungs and flipped on the light.

To her horror, she found the hostesses’ box turtle, which lived with several other turtles and fish in the tiny bathroom, had escaped from its tank and was crawling around the bathroom floor.

The hostess found her way to the Loo to see what caused the screaming. She laughed at the turtle and explained he was an escape artist.

My friend was not amused. She spent the least amount of time possible at the home and turned on the light before using the Loo in the middle of the night.

Never again for her.

As for me, I haven't heard anything good so never for me either.
A$A$A
It’s 4 a.m. I wake to the sound of footsteps beneath me. The guest room is directly beneath mine. I hear the guestroom door open. Unfortunately, the painters didn’t let the paint completely dry before closing the door, now there is the telltale noise of high gloss paint separating everytime the door opens. I’m a light sleeper, it always wakes me. Combined with the sound of moving feet, I’m now completely awake.

The guest room is just off the foyer, across from the stairs. My bedroom is at the top of the staircase.

I’m now hearing footsteps in the foyer, thump, thump, thump on the hardwood floor. “Why is he walking around the house at this hour?” “Maybe he’s getting water.” “Except wait a minute, those footsteps aren’t going toward the kitchen.” “They’re going toward...why on earth is this dude walking up my steps!”

Tentative step, after tentative step, he climbs higher and higher up my stairs. Toward my bedroom, or even worse, my son’s bedroom.

I am angry now. “What is he doing?!?” My thoughts race. Step, step, step. Until he gets to the third step from the top that always lets out a loud creak, thanks to the movers who dropped a dresser. I’ve been meaning to have it repaired. I always skip that step at night when I have guests so as not to disturb them. I am now happy that step isn’t fixed, as it’s letting know just how close this guest is to my bedroom door.

Just as I throw my covers off, my door slowly swings open. He’s a tall, dark silhouette looming ominously in the threshold. He enters. He turns and ever so quietly grabs the doorknob and begins to shut my door.

I jolt out of my bed. I’m on two feet and screaming, “WHAT ARE YOU DOING IN MY BEDROOM!!” No response. “What are you doing in here?!?!” No response. I am livid. “WHAT ARE YOU DOING IN MY BEDROOM!?” “Guests are NOT supposed to be upstairs. He mumbles something unintelligible. “Get out!” “Go back downstairs, NOW!!” He mumbles and quickly opens the door back up and breezes to the otherside. This time he shuts the door from outside the bedroom. I’m still inside yelling at him. I’m not done! I grab my doorknob to yank it back open. Only I can’t open my door. He’s holding it from the other side. We play tug of war for what seems an endless game, but was really only maybe five seconds. He lets go. The door swings open.

I yell that I “cannot have anyone in my house who does not obey house rules; the listing says “NO upstairs access!” He mumbles something as he walks down stairs. “Go back to your room!!!” I’ve just realized my chest is heaving. My heart is pounding. My breathing is labored. I’m truly shaken.

He completes his descent down the steps.

I race over to my son’s room. The commotion in the landing has interrupted his sleep. He asks me what the guest was doing “in our upstairs?”. “Are you okay Mom?” My first job is always to protect him; to always be strong for him. I tell him I’m fine, and that the guest is back in the guest room. Downstairs. I sit at his bed and wait for him to doze back off.

I hear the the guestroom door close. I hear the toilet flush. Then I hear my phone vibrate. That’s weird. I never get texts at this hour. I walk back across the landing to my room. Wondering how such a bizarre turn of events happened. This man could have been coming to kill me, or rape me, or tie me up, or any number of things. Who knows!! “Why on earth are you renting your spare room, Brittney!?!” I ask myself. I look at my phone to find this text:

Sleepwalking ehh? I’m not sure I believe that 100%. The following afternoon, the incident is still rubbing me the wrong way. He’s here two more nights. I decide to call Airbnb and report the matter.

So, definitely a bad experience for me as an Airbnb host was when I had a 6’3 man walk up my steps, open my bedroom door, step into my room, and shut the door behind him. At 4:00 in the morning.
A$A$A
Regular hosting can be a tough business. I’ve been doing it for about 3 years and only host private rooms. I thought about hosting my entire home, but I can see many people are not respectful in general and certainly wouldn’t be if left alone. I also respect my great neighbors. I can check someone out but until they arrive, I don’t really know their personality. If you do this, you need to be prepared to ask someone to leave if it isn’t working.

I tend to get long-term guests who are on short-term work contracts or professional internships in medicine or business or journalism. I’ve had a few guests who I was glad to see depart, usually based on vibes. A couple people spent way too much time complaining about their work situation, which is usually a temporary situation they accepted. One intern stayed with me four times and the last time showed up pouting and with a long-lasting bad attitude, was unfriendly towards another guest and it turned out her family went on an international trip and she couldn’t go so she went into an emotional downward spiral, which I found out two weeks later. This same guest lied about her references (using her boyfriend), lied about lying, and about damaging the finish on a piece of new furniture. I required she buy the furniture and take it with her.

I call references if a guest is new to Airbnb and does not have any reviews. I do not break this rule. I depend heavily on reviews, how guests communicate in the reservation process, and their story as to why they are coming. I host because I enjoy sharing my home and meeting people from all walks of life. I think hard about whether someone works for me and don’t hesitate to say no upfront. I did that today to a woman coming to work in my area temporarily who used texting communication with no punctuation, nonsensical sentences, and simply wasn’t reading and answering the questions I asked. That could only be how it would be all the time she is here; her communication style would likely offend other guests staying here. I am always here when guests arrive. I have left overnight on short trips only if a guest has been here for several days to a couple weeks and I feel perfectly comfortable. And, I have had some wonderful, very responsible guests whom I have really enjoyed getting to know.

I don’t recommend people hosting if you depend on it financially. Be prepared to say no anytime you don’t feel really great about a guest. Prevention is always worth it.
A$A$A
Extortionist still allowed to use airbnb while honest host loses money!



I have already started my quest to phase out Airbnb. In the beginning I thought they were this great company who would stand behind what they said, but um…. no….  I quickly found out that this is not the case at all. My first negative  experience was when I was contacted by a guest with no photo or profile  about renting my apartment. In retrospect, I should have realized the reason for this could be a criminal record. This was about the 5th month that I had been using Airbnb. So, she asked me if the dates she wanted were  available and I told her yes.  Then she tells me, okay my friend is going to contact you with her account. The friend contacts me. Also, no photo, but a photo of something else. I asked her to fill out her profile and put up a photo, but she tells me she is just to busy with work for that. So, I tell her that everyone in her party will have to give me a photo ID. Then she asks me if they have to pay everything up front which for some reason gave me a weird feeling, and I said yes she did. She said she would email the IDs. Then she books and no IDs. She then tells me they will give them to me when they arrive.

When they arrive they tell me that they went on Google Earth and searched the area inch by inch to make sure it was safe. Again a strange feeling came over me, and then excuses about giving me the IDs later when the rest of the group arrives.

So, next thing I know I am eating Thanksgiving dinner and I get a call from her with this fake hyperventilating sound asking me if the cleaning lady had keys to the apartment. The answer to that question was no, because the company I was using at that time did not allow the employees to have keys. I am sure she had pulled that scam before because she was shocked when I said no. So, I turn to my friends and I say, this girl is going to ask me for money, I guarantee it. Then after dinner, I call Airbnb to tell them what is going on and they tell me to go over there, but not to give them more than 5 minutes notice and  not to go alone. I brought a camera because I was afraid they were going to steal my stuff and I wanted to document the condition of the lock.

I get over there with the handy man from the building down the street in  case the lock is broken.  Upon arriving I see there has been no damage to the lock, and no evidence of a break in. When I get  inside, there are piles of brand new merchandise and at least 10 wigs  all over the apartment. At this point, I am really scared they are going  to steal my stuff so I take photos of all my things in the apartment while they are boozing it up. Then they tell me their story which changed later, and I say okay lets call the cops so you guys can make an insurance claim(they had said they had travel insurance) suddenly the doom and gloom that had been hanging over their trip since this alleged $650 had gone missing was replaced by optimism that it would turn up. Then I remind them that I need their IDs and they tell me that they have decided not to give them to me because of the circumstances.

During the entire time they stayed I keep getting messages from her saying that the missing money has really put a damper on her trip. Which I could already tell meant give me $650 or you are getting a bad review. This was not the only hint  foretelling the actual extortion attempt that was coming, but I do not  remember all of what she said now.

The first time I went there, I forgot to turn on my tape recorder which had a brand new tape in it, but the second time, I did not and the story of  when and how the  money went missing was changed. The handy man again  was with me and he picked up on this as well. One thing I gotta say is these girls were very charming and impeccably dressed so watch out for the charming con artists.

Anyway, she keeps emailing me with the subtle threats and about how I needed to help them solve the  mystery and problem of the missing money, and how this missing money is  putting a damper on her “experience in my apartment” and how  she "had nothing good to say about my apartment" because of this missing money. I told her that I was not a detective and she needed to call the cops.

The entire time I kept Airbnb apprised of what was going on and they told me not to cave and not to give her the $650. They expressly told me that they had my back. However, later they told me that she had told them that if I did not give her the money she would give me a bad review and they told her that was okay as long as she followed certain guidelines. What? They told her she needed to call the cops and not me about the money. She refused to call them, and then they tell her it is okay to give me a bad review. Way to go Airbnb!

So, then she starts demanding to talk to me in person on the Airbnb message thread. This is when I knew the actual unveiled extortion attempt was coming. One of the days she demanded that I come, I could not and she became belligerent about it. I told her I would come on check day to assist her in making a police report. I went on check out day and again she refused to make a police report. This time I had my tape recorder with a brand new tape in it going before I even got into the place so I got all of it.

She proceeds to tell me that if I do not give her $650 she will give me a review that will ruin my reputation and destroy my business. Then she goes to lunch after check out time and leaves her friend there who will not pick up her trash. So, I start asking the friend questions which were also recorded. I asked to show me any proof that the money ever existed and she tells me banks in St. Lucia do not give receipts. Okay, how about a receipt from the money exchange here in America. Nope, we would not have kept that. Alright then, no proof this money even existed.

 So,  by this time it is way past check out and the cleaning person is having  to clean around this girl and their stuff. The extortionist comes back  and I notice that they have not given me both sets of keys back, and I have to run down the stairs with her to make sure she gives me my keys and she starts screaming about Airbnb in the lobby of my building. After she is gone I call Airbnb.  The rep agrees that the messages leading up to the actual in person  extortion attempt already look like extortion, but they cannot listen to  the tape because it could have been altered. Really, this girl told your employee that if I did not give her the money she would give me a bad review, and they can’t listen to the tape? Not, to mention it was a brand new tape and could be examined forensically.

After this my BF tells me probably nothing will happen and with the help of an Airbnb rep, I decide not to give her a review unless she gave me one and if she did, I will do it at the last minute.  I asked the rep when the last  minute would be (and this is also in writing) and he tells me 11 am on a certain date. The morning of the date rolls around. I wake up and see she has given me a review, but I cannot see it. So, I quickly write one up  post before 11 am, but the system tells me it is too late. Then I see she has given me a pretty debilitating review. She has done this before I am sure.  So, I call Airbnb and tell them that the time they told me was incorrect. Well, guess what? They did not care and would not change it, even though the time and date they gave me was in writing.  They also would not delete the review even though they were the ones who told me not to cave and not to give her the money.

The next guy I appealed to read the messages and said he did not get it and she did not have to call the cops. It was as if he had no idea what had transpired, and did not know that they told me not to cave and not give her the money. It was like he thought I was making the whole thing up because I got a bad review. I would have been better off to give her the $650 and I would have gotten a great review. I lost almost 2 months of business after that. So, the long and the short of it was that they told me not to cave and that they had my back, and it was really all just talk. One hand does not know what the other hand is doing over there or they just play dumb.

I was so disgusted I paid $1000 to get on VRBO. So far, I have had no problems with VRBO except their guests book a lot more in advance so it took awhile to start filling my place with their people. I actually have many more horror stories about Airbnb including being lied to over and over again by their employees, and I  think their website is messed up and they will not admit it, but this is  enough for now. I really cannot wait to completely phase them out.
A$A$A
My friends had some bad experience with  Airbnb. They booked a room in NYC. I remember them saying that they found a really cheap and well communicated place. I guess they had never listened to hip hop music because it turned out the room was placed in Bronx. They realized that it wasn't the safest choice when they came there. What is more the entrance to their building was closed with a police tape:

They were calling their host but with no answer, so they went back to their couchsurfing host, where they had spent previous nights. 
A$A$A
After a very bad experience with Airbnb, where they allowed the host to defraud us of $450, I posted a guest comment (in accordance with their rules where they are strict in what you can & can't say); my remarks were truthful and I worded them in such a way as to warn others, but I wasn't nearly as harsh as I could have been had I been given "freedom of speech"... Needless to say, the comment was eventually removed, but probably not in time to drive some customers away from this very dirty (mouse droppings on the kitchen counter) apartment in Venice, California....   This situation has led me to organize a Class Action suit against Airbnb:))
A$A$A
Just this week, I had some new experiences with Airbnb. For many years, my experiences have been great and I'm a fanatic Airbnb guest with a list of good reviews, leaving behind nice reviews as well.

Up to last week.

I'm planning to go to Mexico next December and of course my first resource is Airbnb. As ever. I have already booked a ticket and invited family members to come along and friends to visit us during that period. For the last 5 nights, after a lot of evenings with selections, I had booked a nice house on the beach, but after 2 days it was canceled by the host.

Airbnb responded with some extra budget to make another booking, so I started selecting again and contacting hosts. This took me 4 evenings, because December clearly is high season due to all Americans going to Cancun and spreading out over the peninsula. I found another nice and affordable place.

Guess what, it was cancelled after booking. Without a note from the owner. So, I spent some nights to select another one. I checked with around 15 owners about their places and selected a place 30 kms further than our preference because it was clear that this was not going to be easy peasy.

I will spare you the details of the rest to avoid boredom. Summarized, I got cancelled 8 times, each time without any relevant notice. In 6 other cases, the owners raised the price by 300-500% after my booking request. In total, I have had contact with over 30 owners and have spent more than 15 nights in selections and communication. The final place we selected is 350 kms from the place we planned to go to and has double the price of the first booking we made.

The suggestions that Airbnb came up with after the first cancellations were locations with amazingly bad ratings (why would they recommend them?), drastically different prices (why would our budget suddenly be 400% higher?) or with 1 bedroom for a group of 8 (I love my mother in law, but....).

The frustrating thing is that you cannot leave any reviews for the owners that cancel you out, while they deserve to be filtered or rated by the Airbnb community. That would certainly be a nice feature to add to Airbnb!
A$A$A
Bad experiences are quite natural on peer-to-peer apartment rental platforms because of several reasons (list is not comprehensive):

Law of large numbers - There are more than 100.000 offerings on bigger platforms, out of which is very difficult to filter out all the cheaters, liars or simply those people who have totally different cultural background and have different attitude towards cleanliness.

Such platforms are only mediators and as such besides the reputation loss they don't risk too much legally. They do have the motivation to have only good offers to maintain reputation, but they would definitely focus much more on that issue if they could be easily sued.

As startups their main goal was/is as quick growth as possible and quality of offerings came/comes only after that.

Lost of hosts rent out their apartments as a side income. Of course they cannot focus on reaching the highest level of guest satisfaction besides having a full-time job.

Platforms of course are working on these issues, as it is their goal, too, to have satisfied guests, however you, as a guest, still have to be aware and pay attention to strange signs to avoid bad experiences.

What you should do:

Use reviews and ratings. There are still so many guests don't pay attention to that at all, and then are surprised when they find themselves in a dirty, moldy apartment...And there are still so many guests who don't leave reviews, and as such don't improve the platform experience.

Besides pictures uploaded, check the area on Google Maps/Street. You can find a nice apartment based on the pictures, but if the area is dangerous, dirty, your experience can be easily destroyed. Moreover, if you check the building with Google Streetview, you have a better chance to identify frauds (there is no such building there, it is totally destroyed from outside etc.)

Read the apartment description carefully. Is it private room or whole apartment? Are there extra costs? Will you have a couch or a normal bed?

Contact the host before booking. Ask questions, you can learn a lot even from the responses...

Finally, some horror stories I heard:

The host contacted the guest one day before that the apartment will not be available, as the door was broken and they have to order a new door which will arrive only after 1 week. But the host can offer a new apartment, which is even nicer....and the new apartment was a small room in the basement, outside of the city full of dirt, mold and cockroaches. (Several stories like that.)

The guests left from the apartment for sightseeing, and when they arrived back, they were robbed, however the doors were still locked. The host of course didn't know about anything, and the AirBnb insurance only covers hosts...

Not only the hosts can be problem: The guest stayed in a private room in a bigger apartment, where the other guests smoked weed, and insulted that guest.

I had an experience with AirBnb, when I was in Miami. I arrived there with some friends after 18 hours of travelling and couldn't reach the host. We went to the address given, called him several times, without any answers. We asked the receptionist about the apartment (it was in a huge building), who said that the host doesn't own that apartment but he did the same thing already several times with other guests via AirBnb (again...please leave reviews...). Finally receptionist talked to the owner, and strangely, we could get the keys for the apartment. However, it was full of dirt, trash, without new blankets and towels, Wifi not working etc. We were even afraid of leaving our stuffs there after the strange initial story.
A$A$A
Happened to a friend of mine…names changed for privacy’s sake.

Situation: Four-person apartment, two of the bedrooms subletted out by two separate hosts (who were roommates). The renters were…eccentric, mostly tolerable to the other roommates living in the third and fourth bedroom. They were student age and stereotypically student messy, which made my friend not want to spend a lot of time there. We’ll call the first renter in the first room “Josh”, and the second renter in the second bedroom “Caroline”. One of the roommates (who resided in the third bedroom) we’ll call “Ruby”.

As it goes with less-than-ideal roommate situations, time dragged by with the renters (who were staying for several months. But finally, it was the end of the time paid for, and the second renter “Caroline” left about a week before “Josh”. Here’s where it gets interesting.

One day, “Ruby” comes home and finds unknown people in the apartment. She speaks to Josh, who declares them friends of his that are crashing for a few days and will be respectful, etc. and they’ll be sleeping in the recently vacated bedroom #2. Something doesn’t smell right though, and Ruby runs it by her roommate (who’s bedroom is the one the “friends” are staying in).

Surprise surprise, Ruby’s roommate #2 gave no permission for anyone to use her room and had no knowledge of the situation. Strike #1 for Josh. Ruby thinks to herself that, maybe, they misunderstood and thought they could use the bedroom when they were supposed to crash in the living room (which has ample space).

So Ruby decides to speak to Josh again, and Josh claims he messaged roommate #1 about it. Ruby goes on to message roommate #1, who’s bedroom #1 Josh is staying in. Surprise surprise, roommate #1 has no idea what Ruby is taking about, Strike #2.

Ruby decides to politely inquire to the guests (who were very polite) how they knew Josh. They readily admit they have no idea who he is and that they’re airbnb renters. This situation just went from weird to disturbing real quick. The airbnb renters were very apologetic about it and offered to compensate roommate #2, whose bedroom they were staying in, and promptly made alternate arrangements. Strike #3 for Josh, busted.

Ruby and her other roommates (by instant messaging) confront Josh about it, and he admits to his actions. Roommate #2 looked into legal proceedings, but nothing came of it so far that I know, and it wasn’t worth kicking Josh out as he had three days or so left on his lease agreement.

TLDR A subletter of my friend’s apartment rented out a bedroom of the apartment he was staying in without the permission of the bedroom’s owner nor the other roommates, and lied about the people that he rented to to cover his ass. The situation proceeded to be revealed quite easily, and had quite a few people furious at him. Some people have no common sense nor decency, and not everyone on Airbnb will be upstanding citizens. Never found out much more about the poor Airbnb renters caught in the crossfire, but seems like they ended up okay.

Credit to CNN for the picture
A$A$A
Our stay with a host in London wasn't terrible but we were left feeling angry and uncomfortable. Here's why:

The host's floors are icky. We had to wear shoes the entire time or clean the apartment floors ourselves. I know English people wear their shoes indoors but the carpets shouldn't be so dusty they make you sniffle or the floors so sticky they make you cringe.

We didn't sign up to be house sitters. Sure it's cool to be allowed to have the entire flat to ourselves but watering the man's myriad plants shouldn't be on our to-do list. He was unhappy that some didn't survive our busy schedule when he returned from his 10-day trip and made it clear passive-aggressively.

While he was away, and we were out, the wind blew two of his ornaments off a windowsill. We were not warned that this could happen and offered to compensate him for the broken souvenirs. He declined ungraciously and has just accused my husband of breaking them in his response to a rather mild and short review by my husband

He also complained in his rather bitchy response to our review that my husband didn't mention I'd be staying for a week. My husband told him I'd be there for "a couple of days" and he'd offered to waive the extra fee of my stay as my husband would be staying there for two weeks. When he learnt I would be there a week, he asked for payment for 4 nights, saying he'd offer the first three nights free. Even though I arrived at 3am on the first night and my husband left a night early, he still insisted on the four nights compensation for "utilities".

For someone with icky floors who takes his festering garbage out once a week, he really has strange 'cleanliness' requirements of his guests. He insists we squidgee down his shower stall and, by the way, he only uses three-ply toilet paper. We know because he ran out, didn't replace it and not only asked us to pick up some had specific requirements about the quality of paper we would choose.

The ceiling is paper thin and you can hear every movement the above neighbours make. The host keeps (still does) insisting that this isn't a problem. Well for some people, it is. We could also hear the train and traffic, both of which he denied was a problem.

Overall, while we didn't exactly suffer, it wasn't worth the money and the experience left a bad taste.
A$A$A
Guests leaving the front door wide open is a common occurrence.  I had one guest bring their own dining room table.  After they checked out I found my dining table moved into the bedroom and another dining table in it's place.  I found the Ikea packaging for the replacement table in the trash bin.  All of this was annoying but the additional income made it tolerable.

The worst experience I had was that a guest tied to hold his wedding at my house without permission. He did tell me that he was 'getting married tomorrow' when he checked in but he did not tell me that he was holding the wedding at my house!  I assumed that he was getting married elsewhere and would be using my airbnb as a place to stay before and after the wedding. 

I woke up the next morning to find he had erected a gazebo-like structure in the backyard overnight.  Guests and a caterer  were also arriving.  The guest never disclosed that he was planning to host an event at my house.  He violated my T's and C's  (only have 7 people in the house at a time) and I had to ask them to leave since I don't have adequate insurance.   AWKWARD!
A$A$A
My first experience listing my room on Airbnb was terrible. The guest is bad. The conversation with Airbnb for compensation is also not good - until now.

I listed my extra apartment at a very low price, hoping that the guest will be happy and the first experience will be good.

Turn out the opposite. The guest made a mess and a lot of damages. He did not show up to give back the keys on the agreed checking out time (after travelling two times back to the apartment, I finally found the keys thrown outside). He just ran away without taking phone calls. The home was in a huge mess. He dissembled our sofa bed, hid unfinished pizza in the closet, destroyed our stock of home appliance - the whole pack of toilet paper, many bottles of new shampoo, etc. He just left an insulting and discriminating message on airbnb. "You really come to Norway .... Get back to XXX."

The conversation with airbnb for compensation was also not very smooth, I have to say. I will update the experience.

Aug 2: filed the claim for damage and extra service.

Aug 10: Airbnb called me and asked for the situation. Said they would discuss about the compensation for the damage on home appliance and my extra service.

Aug 11: I received an email about Airbnb's compensation: a coupon of 500 NOK. No cash compensation, because I can't provide receipt on the toilet paper, shampoos, etc... My extra service is not compensated. I do not feel like that they really want to compensate their host reasonably.

Will keep updating the experience.
A$A$A
I had a run-in with a wacky potential host. Ended up not booking and am still hesitant to use the service.

I was planning on taking my 2 youngest daughters to Monterey for a weekend. I found a nice place there at a good rate. The host said it was available and asked me to PayPal or wire her a $50 deposit on top of the booking fee (Which it turns out is against Airbnb policy). The host also mentioned that my Airbnb profile was "hidden"–but, as best I can tell, there's no such setting in Airbnb.

After working out details with the host on Tuesday, I spent most of Wednesday and today working and getting my taxes done (and watching some opening day baseball). I hadn't yet booked the place on Airbnb–but I still planned to. Apparently, that wasn't soon enough for this potential host. The Airbnb message thread (with names removed) is included below.

I will admit, Airbnb was very helpful with the situation.
A$A$A
DO NOT USE AIRBNB.  I recently went on their website to book an apartment in Holland, I searched through airbnb website and found something suitable with the dates I requested. I then proceeded the only way you can, to press on the book it now button. It then asked for my credit card details etc. which i provided and coming to the end of the procedure airbnb states that credit card details are on a retainer and that if the booking is not completed by the owner of the property that you will not be charged.

2 hours later i receive a message of the owner of the apartment that it is not available and that it is declined. I didn't think much of it and the next day I proceeded in the same way to search for a property. I found one, gave all my details yet again and waited for this all illusive reply as to the acceptance of the owner of the property.

In the meantime i receive a text message from my bank that 2 large sums of money had been taken out of my account. I am baffled, I contacted airbnb with great difficulty, searching through their website to find human contact and say ' he where the hell did my money go?' I have no apartment to show for it, and also property nr. 2 was declined by the owner. 

The response was this:

Hello Sam,

Thank you for contacting Airbnb. My name is Elijah, and it is my pleasure to assist you today.

Our records show that the authorization of $466 to your Visa was voided on October 15, 2013.

When a security deposit is released or when a reservation request is retracted, declined, or expired, Airbnb voids any authorization that was made on your card. While authorization voids happen instantly on our end, it may take your bank or credit card company longer to process the transaction. The authorization may have been deleted from the account entirely, as it was never a real charge. For more details you can follow this link: www.airbnb.com/help/question/313

If you are experiencing a delay, please contact your bank or credit card company about this issue to see if they can track it down. Provide the processor authorization code, which is 87****, and advise them you are inquiring about an authorization and not a refunded charge. By providing this information to your bank or credit card company, they can expedite this process and grant you access to your funds again.

I hope you have a great day, and my sincerest apologies for any inconvenience caused by the voided authorization.

Kind regards,

Elijah E

SO, as it turns out it is my banks fault for taking the money out of my account in the first place, and it is also my banks fault that it took ALMOST 2 weeks to have the money refunded.

DO NOT USE AIRBNB, I had to go on holiday with very low funds in my account as I had to book a hotel through another website for my stay.

All the best,

Sammy
A$A$A
My two friends and I were staying in an apartment in Los Angeles which was supposed to be for a month.

First 2 weeks were fine, except for the occasion noises and we would hear weird things at night (we weren’t in the BEST area), and there was a sketchy alley way in the back of our apartment, so we just figured it was the noise from there.

We were celebrating my friend’s birthday, cut up the cake and sat at the little island. I was sitting closest to the wall, and I saw out of the corner of my eye what looked like an antenna, but I figured it was just a spider. 5 minutes later, my one friend screams bloody murder and we all jump up and see a cockroach, about 5 inches long, walking up the wall near where I had just sat.

He climbed behind the stove and we were in panic, as we never had experience with roaches or any vermin, and considering two of us were clean freaks, it really bothered us. So we finally moved the stove, and we saw TONS of roaches crawling around back there under the stove. The place really was not dirty, but I guess with the location and the stove, they collected there. My friends and I called the host and he acted as if nothing was wrong. He put powder down…which we weren’t happy about considering the amount of them and how this is a problem that needs to be fixed through extermination.

My one friend and I left about 3 days later, we couldn’t stand the thought of sleeping in the house any longer, especially with those disgusting things running around our place.

We did contact airbnb about the situation, but they only gave us a $200 credit, which was low considering the place was about $3k a month to rent.

I still do Airbnb, but now I make sure to inspect a little deeper when I arrive!
A$A$A
Booked a stay at a waterfront place that advertised cozyness and privacy, turned up to find a disarmingly ugly suburban cube plonked by the side of a lake with another appartment right above the one we had booked and a connecting door that gave onto the living room (so much for privacy). The pictures were incredibly misleading. The outside was aggressively ugly (which I have no issue with in and of itself, but it's not at all what we were given to expect, the listing had no pictures of the outside because it would have instantly smashed the image they were trying to create), but the inside was weird and disturbing. Rooms were either gigantic and cavernous, or tiny with no windows (including one of the bedrooms - shouldn't that be called a bed-closet?) and the furnishings were dark, leathery and forbidding. General effect was of a suburban sex dungeon - I was strongly reminded of Twin Peaks. I felt very creeped out and unsafe (especially since the host had acted strangely clingy) but reassured myself that since other people had left reviews, that must have meant they came away alive, right? My partner said that actually this property hadn't been up long, and there were no reviews. I felt my unease turn into downright fear. Everything felt totally wrong. We were exhausted from the drive but neither of us felt safe sleeping there, so we left and took refuge in a hotel. Host tried to tempt us back the next day with offers of extra amenities. Who the hell tries to lure guests back after they have clearly said they don't want to stay there? If you advertise cozy and the reality is sinister and bizarre, and then you act like a scary weirdo, what do you expect? Good luck to the next guests who wind up trapped there. We weren't able to leave a review because we cancelled our booking. The AirBnB system is deeply flawed and leaves you powerless against exploitative creeps - use only with extreme caution. Don't trust places with no reviews, and if there are reviews. look out for any hint at all something might be off, given that the reviews most likely to be negative will have been de facto omitted.
A$A$A
Bad experiences hosting: I had a couple stay, not a peep, once they left and deposit retuned, they sent an email saying "We will POST this TERRIBLE Review" unless you refund us our stay.  About 95% Lies (one part that was true was the couch had a stain on it...).  I responded that I don't do blackmail...sure enough she posted a terrible review.  I called Airbnb and sent them the emails and they DID nothing.  Nada. 

Bad Experience as a Guest: We booked a romantic home in Sonoma for the weekend where it said "Entire Home".  When we arrived, there were 2 pitbulls in a cage outside the home.  Apparently someone would come every morning to feed them then leave.  Well after our first night, the lady that did come, opened the cage and one of the pitbulls got out...somehow a neighbor down the street with a stroller saw the pitbull, and started running away - which gave all reason for the pitbull to go after him.  Pitbull bit the mans arm...and ran away.  Within an HOUR about 3 police cars came to our house and that's how we spent the Saturday, trying to get a hold of the owners (again Airbnb was pretty useless).  Fun times as you can imagine.  Pitbull wasn't found until the Monday.
A$A$A
Bed bugs.

It all started with a promising listing in Kissimmee, near Orlando, FL. The well-reviewed listing was for a large rental home, perfect for multiple families. The pictures left us dreaming of a fun family vacation-- resting in bedrooms with private bathrooms, swimming a private pool, playing in a game room, and being just minutes away from all the theme parks.

When we arrived earlier than check-in, we ran into the cleaning staff, which oddly consisted of two young teenage-looking adults. That is, they did not look professional at all. That should have been the first warning sign.

My husband and I chose the only master bedroom on the first floor. The families with kids occupied the bedrooms on the second floor. Every bedroom looked clean and well maintained. The only room that was off was the game room, which had a strong mildewy odor and poor lighting, nothing like the pictures. That should have been the second warning sign...

The final warning sign... I woke up in the middle of the night feeling something wasn't right. I shook off the feeling and tried going back to sleep after browsing my phone. However, I felt my skin was crawling... Not not crawling, itching. I thought, maybe it's just the polyester bedding. Then I saw it, a small, almost invisible bug sitting on the end of my long sleeve. Instinctively, I brushed it away, thinking it was some small flying bug.

The thought bed bugs flashed briefly in my mind before I quickly dismissed it. I had checked the bedding as a precaution, having read so many horror stories of bed bugs in hotel beds. Or had I? Then I looked to my right, at the center of the bed, nearby the side my husband was sleeping, blood stains. And a fat red adult bed bug, probably having recently fed on my unfortunate husband.

I screamed for my husband to wake up. Luckily, we had the forethought to record this in case we needed proof for a claim. I used my cell phone camera to record the blood sucker crawling around. It turned out we would need the video and pictures as evidence.

After waking up the other adults in the house, we all agreed to write up a complaint to be fully refunded and planned to move into a hotel the next day. Every family inspected their own beds, and no one spotted any bed bugs (although they are difficult to find-- I consider myself blessed for finding one on the first night). However, strangely, on the kids beds and the bed downstairs, we found what we thought were remnants of dead bed bugs (in addition to a few more live ones on the master bed). The presence of dead bugs may be indicative of a previous attempt to terminate an infestion, but there is no way to be certain.

My husband and I ended up sleeping the rest of the night on an uncomfortable leather couch for the rest of the night. I was in and out of sleep, because of the loud whirring of the drier tossing our clothes at the hottest setting: the necessary step to prevent the bugs from following us home. Our luggage was stored in the bathroom, ready for us to run away from the gross place.

The host contacted us the next morning. She seemed as shocked as we were and reassured us that she contacted Airbnb to issue us a full refund. We were asked to leave the house right away, which we gladly obliged to, so that the exterminator could get started right away. Eventually Airbnb contacted me by phone later that day, apologizing, saying this was a rare occurrence, commending me for taking a video and pictures and putting the conversation on the Airbnb website, and offering me a coupon for next time (no thanks!)

Overall it was an unlucky yet unforgettable experience, commemorated by the scarred welts left on my husband's arm. We don't blame the host for the issue, but can't help but wonder if previous guests suffered the same fate as us. After this experience and after reading all these Airbnb horror stories, we will stick to tried and true hotels.
A$A$A
I was so shocked and sad at the outcome of my experiences with airbnb. I got three separate threatening visits from the NYC DOB - Department of buildings, a government agency. They told me they needed to inspect my home as there were reports I was running an illegal hotel. I am still currently fighting the DOB for my own right to privacy.

(this is not the illegal way to use airbnb in nyc because I live on the property while guests do and keep within time frames allotted by the city/state, and also pay hotel taxes.

Thats not the worst of it:

I've been a host for 1 year straight, and also been a guest. I've hosted more than 150 guests from many countries and until I met lisa, I had only positive reviews.

Now i've had creepy and weird guests but I let that go. THIS lady was a different story. "Lisi D" as she insisted on being called was the meanest and cruelest woman we have ever had the displeasure to be swindled by, with the help of airbnb.

I could tell she hated me and my cute little apartment the moment she saw it. She reserved a week with me. The day after she arrived, I got an email late in the day saying that it was unlivable and terrible conditions (a bunch of lies about broken electronics and lack of cleanliness, which my own pictures and previous reviews will negate).

2 weeks later she wrote a review on my listing. A cruel, vindictive review completely meant to destroy my business, filled with lies about things like broken appliances that were working, hair in the bed I had just freshly laundered, a dirty fridge I just bleached. She wrote that she was shocked that I didn't offer her a refund. I informed her that this was because she never cancelled her reservation and thus, if she is there or not, the week is hers and is blocked on my calendar, I cannot accept new bookings, its her reserved time. So why should she be refunded for reserving my time?

After her terrible review of my listing went live online I was forced to end my business and deactivate my listings, as that review completely killed my chance of securing other guests. Of course, she knew that.

Then, this guest called airbnb to demand a refund for the week that they reserved and never cancelled (but decided was uninhabitable so went elsewhere). Airbnb contacted me about this several times in a very cryptic manner, asking for "resolution". I said that it seems resolved to me. My business is now ruined and my listings deactivated, and this person got to write her review, she paid for 7 days and never cancelled, leaving us with an active reservation and thus no ability to make money. How could I help her with problems she never voiced? She never told me about any of this until 2 weeks later.

Airbnb was SOOO rude and unhelpful. Their general policy is that hosts and guests should resolve issues on their own. Its even hard to find their phone number. They were condescending, rude, irritable at my legitimate grievance. Despite reserving a whole week of our time, she is being refunded for 6 days (and these are days which I could not do business in)

This is all because she had "pictures" to prove the lack of cleanliness. I said i would also provide any and all documentation, and in the long run, if she wanted a refund, she should have cancelled to free the week, or simply told us her issues and we would have worked to solve them or even offered a partial refund. NO. She was too cruel and too unreasonable AND the airbnb staff took her side, often citing it was because she was a "first time user". First time user? Meaning she doesnt understand the home-stay model, doesnt know how to communicate, and expected a 5 star hotel in the middle of NYC for $89/night. Makes no sense.

Why does she deserve a refund? She reserved a week of my time, whether or not she decided to stay (and didnt give us the chance to help her). she has pictures? I have pictures too. I was never listened to. Airbnb basically told me to stop contacting them and they made up their mind.

So now I have to PAY my guest who RUINED my business hundreds of dollars, as it was decided by the airbnb team.

Penalizing hosts who work in the community and follow all the rules is NOT the way to solve a problem. Thats how they just lost 4 lucrative NYC listings.

I'll just stick to the charming family-run guest houses of the countries I backpack through for my true home-stay experience. airbnb is a business through and through, and have ZERO LOYALTY TO HOSTS.

Hosts are money to them. A means to an end. I have never been treated so rudely by staff, nor had my legitimate grievances heard by them.

Needless to say, I will NEVER host with them again of course. And now I feel uncomfortable and betrayed by their company, I wont be using them for travel. They refuse to take any responsibility and typically side with the guests no matter what the problem is. I've been scammed and forced to pay before but at least these scammers stayed for a night and didnt leave me a bad review. this Lisi D came and purposely to ruined my business and then demanded money. And airbnb made me give it to her.
A$A$A
After 2 years of full time hosting 2 properties, one a complete apartment, the other a room in my home, I have abandoned airbnb. It was fun, I met some incredibly wonderful souls and made some money along the way.

The last few guests, particularly in the room, but also in the apartment, we're different and worrying. There was a sense of entitlement that I hadn't experienced before. To me airbnb is about respect as you are staying in someone's home, and to me that was the strength. It's a privilege to be able to, and how I treated my hosts on the occasions when I was a guest.

I was treated with comtempt after I asked them on the third occasion that there are some simple house rules they need to abide by (ie clean up after themselves and turn the heater in their room OFF when they go out). This resulted in them screaming that I am a F'ing bitch and to F off. These girl then checked out in the morning 3 days early, while I was at work and took one of my keys. When I messaged to ask if they would return the key, they refused and said it was their entitlement to keep it until their checkout date, even though they had left and had no reason to return except to cause mischief. Excuse me, this is my home! Not some cheap hotel room, it was the end of a 1 month stay and I have a strict cancellation policy in place. What followed was a harrowing 28 hour before they finally dropped the key in the letterbox.

Think about it, they have access to my home, but no reason to be there. I live alone. Then the crunch… airbnb PAID the girls to return the key, that's how they deal with it. They refunded the girls money from the company ( not me). When I questioned why they reward people for their bad behaviour they had no answer. The girls account was not suspended and they had full rights to leave me the most toxic review I've ever read which of course they relished.

I put a scenario to Airbnb * so, what if I had come home and my place was trashed*, the answer? Your $100 bond is the ONLY thing you can claim! Host guarantee? No that's not for that purpose.

Then if that wasn't enough, I had 2 more separate incidences and called it a day. My security and the violation of my hospitality and home are simply not worth it. My conclusion is thus. Airbnb, by rewarding bad behaviour, are breeding a new generation of toxic & entitled guests, that I would not let anywhere near my front door. It's become mainstream, and the original *one less stranger * campaign is no longer relevant, sadly. It was a great concept.

**If you still want to host, I would suggest a lengthy honeymoon/interview process with potential guests, NEVER activate instant book, and increase your bond to what is tolerable for guests to be willing to pay, and would cover an event like a trashed home if your insurance company won't.

** in the event that I decided to host (limited) again, the toxic reviews remain forever and it would be doubtful I would get more customers even after 2 wonderful years with no issues, and I did absolutely nothing wrong!
A$A$A
How does a host correct their offering when a guest marks them low on value, location, and cleanliness when you know that you were good for all of it?

Value - I charged below market rate to barely break even on the room. They marked my description as accurate so how do they not think the value is meeting expectations?

Location - I clearly state how long it takes to get to all the destinations that they were going to so that there's misunderstanding of where it is. In fact, they told me they were in the area at another Airbnb MUCH farther in Brooklyn from where I am Lower East Side. So me being clear on the distances traveled compounded with where they were, why did they lower the rating? They knew what they were buying into! I used to live in a highrise that was 15 minute walk from the subway. I feel like even if I clearly stated that and they booked they would still mark you lower for the location. My point is location is completely relative so realize that you booked based on your own needs and if the description is accurate as you marked (5 stars) then the rest of these issues shouldn't be our problem. Spend more money to get a place closer to where you want to be.

Cleanliness - The room has a bed, desk, and mirror. I windexed the mirror, mopped the floor with bleach, and lysol'd all the surfaces in the bedroom as well as the livingroom before their arrival. My pictures showed an apartment that was pre-painted/new furniture so why in the world would they mark my cleanliness down?

I think the issue with Airbnb is that they don't explain in the review process that this is NOT a hotel where you don't give low ratings when you know what you're buying into! You mark a motel 2/3 stars as a standard because of the quality but you give your review based on expectations -- "I paid this much so I know that the quality will be like this". Marking a person's Airbnb like you're at hotel will NOT convince the owner to remodel their entire apartment to have a spa treatment room.

Does anyone have experience with these issues and frustrations? What did you do?
A$A$A
I had a terrible experience as a guest in a property in Crown Heights, Brooklyn.

The property housed 9 guests at any one time, and was run more like a flop house/squat. The reviews and description on airbnb did not reflect the property, or it's aggressive, unpredictable, paranoid, and extremely unhygienic host - a phenomenon myself and other guests couldn't fathom. Did it used to be ok? Were the other guests fake accounts? Were they all crazy? Did the host threaten them in some way?

None of the above. Turns out, every time the host got a bad review (and believe me, I was there for weeks with guests coming and going, and boy, he got them!) he would phone airbnb and demand the review be taken down as the reviewers were 'liars' and 'thieves' and 'crazy'( in plain view and earshot of his current guests, making sure we all heard the conversations...if we didn't he would corner you when you walked in the house and tell you all about it!).

And airbnb complied.

Negative reviews disappeared.

After this happened maybe 4 times (that I know of and whilst I was in the property in the space of 3 weeks), airbnb cancelled his account, leaving us guests who had booked through them feeling a little abandoned/unsure about our deposits or if we'd be suddenly chucked out and lose money. As a result, I also couldn't leave him an honest review after I left (I know he is still renting his rooms, just not sure what website he's using now).

I should say that I was on a tight traveller's budget, which is why I couldn't leave this godawful place...in fact the only plus side to this place was it's incredible price. $14 a night. You get what you pay for I guess. Especially in New York.

I really REALLY think airbnb needs to take more care in who they let become a host. And stop deleting negative reviews.

Examples of some of the madness that went down whilst I stayed in this property

The police came round 3 times. He had a physical fight with two of the guests, two young guys, in unrelated instances - one guy, he (the host) couldn't pay him back a deposit for a long term stay, the other guy he accused of stealing.

He brought people round to threaten them, threatened them himself, trash talked to other guests, argued, bitched, smoked like a chimney directly outside my 'room', never washed (he stank), generally acted like an animal.

He chucked out a 19 year old German girl, in the evening, onto the streets of Crown Heights (aka The Ghetto) with no warning. He got into his head she had let people in to the building to steal his (dirty) frying pan (...not his computer or anything...). He constantly talked to himself about how 'evil' she was.

He was also incredibly and vocally racist - no isreali, australian or german people were to stay in the house anymore. No muslim people either.

If he didn't like someone personally, he shout and bitch about where that person was from, or their religion, stating matter-of-factly to anyone who'd listen that 'they're all like it'.

He ranted and raved, talking and shouting to himself, in the middle of the night - keeping guests up till 3-4am with his insanity. I remember lying awake listening to him swear and shout the same phrase over and over, and feeling genuinely frightened he'd lost it.

There were no walls - just dry wall, and you could hear everything in all the other rooms. You could smell him through the gaps in the walls, and his snoring was unbelievable. Like sleeping in a barn with a pig.

The place was disgusting. The cheap bedsheets dyed your whole body green. The heating didn't work in our room so we froze at night. The shower made me feel physically sick and there were cigarette butts and clumps of hair clogging the drain.

The neighbourhood is a ghetto. Something else the reviews left out.

As a single, young, female traveller it would have been nice to get an accurate description of the property, something that can't happen if airbnb is deleting negative reviews on a host's request (I read some of them before they were deleted, and they couldn't have been more accurate).

I will think long and hard before ever using this service again.
A$A$A
We booked an AirBnB apartment in Tokyo in February for 3 nights in April. 10 days before our stay the host cancels as her landlord has forbidden her from renting out due to noisy guests. We find another AirBnB at short notice. As we're flying in the new host texted that they were changing the apartment we would be in. It took us over an hour to find it - and that was with our adult son looking who's been living in Tokyo for 7 years. It was a dump - not the refurnished apartment with washing machine etc that we'd booked. The beds were not just unmade - they had food and hairs in them. The bathroom was filthy and we decided to not take our shoes off - a cultural no-no. Also no hot water. Our son rang the host who insisted that it had been cleaned. A few emailed pictures and he said would get it cleaned the next day. Not good enough - where would we sleep that night? We'd had enough, gave up and spent a small fortune getting a hotel at 22:00 and for the following nights as well. AirBnB eventually refunded our money - less their commission of course. Because they're guaranteed their commission regardless of outcome, they have no incentive to kick out bad hosts.
A$A$A
When my fiancee and I moved to Oakland, CA we decided to book a room on Airbnb for two weeks while we found a place to live. We stayed with an Ethiopian fellow that as the days progressed we found out he had quite the drinking problem. The drinking started early in the morning and by afternoon he would be haggered to the point of eating our food and blasting horrible music.

The alcoholic caravan kept going until I had to confront our "landlord" to stop eating our food, pay for the food he and sometimes his friends ate, and to lower the music volume. One particular evening, I was with my lady in the room and our inebriated - boozed up "property owner"  knocks on the door and decides to stumble into our room to show family pictures and share life lessons! Yes, I must say that it was a sad and lonely moment that I felt for the fellow.

Overall the "property owner" was a nice guy when he wasn't haggard ( like in most cases). I did not feel secure with my lady being around a person in that state. We are very hesitant to use airbnb again. We did write a review and contacted his sister that handles all the booking for his little brother.
A$A$A
The worst experience was suffered not by me, but by a guest.

She booked in at my place at the last possible minute on a long weekend.

She was highly accredited in terms of reviews, and obviously polite, well educated, and extensively traveled.

And she was so upset that she couldn’t compose herself to check in on the first night.

She was still very upset when she arrived and told me her story.

She had arranged through a host to stay for a long term booking.

However, it turns out that the “host” misrepresented herself, and was actually booking for a third party, a man.

My guest was a woman of colour. Her real “host” was an insufferable bigot who not only refused to let her stay, but insulted her!

What broke her heart even more was that in all her travels, this had never happened.

Now it happened right in her own home town in Canada.

And yes, it gets worse.

She had invested a considerable amount of money in the long term booking via credit card, and it was going to take time for the funds to “unthaw” and get back on her card. Air did their best to move things along, but for now, she was homeless.

As a host, it is a terrible feeling to feel so angry and yet so helpless at the same time. Even the offer of an excursion or a hot meal seemed trite.

She seemed to cheer with some fresh cut flowers from the garden, but it was going to take a lot more than that to help her heal.

I was able to get her to talk about her country of origin, which, by co-incidence, I’d visited and explored. And we drank a lot of tea together!

We really did seem to get along quite well, so I also offered her a long term place in my home.

Ultimately, she got so homesick that she booked a flight back there for the rest of the summer to be with her mother. It was the best decision for her. I was sad to see her go.

Yes, I miss her. But in the same breath, I was glad that she stayed in my home.

And I’m glad that in some small way, I was able to help.
A$A$A
I had a horrible experience today. I did a last-minute auto-book (I got a call for a job interview while I was in Germany, so no data) and sent an initial message, very friendly, saying I would get in touch shortly about when I would be arriving. A few hours later, I send another message saying when I would arrive, giving my phone number, and saying how much I looked forward to the visit.

I travel 6 hours across Germany and check my messages once I receive wifi again. I haven’t heard anything. I figure, ok: I told them what time to expect me. Chances are, they will be home. I ring the doorbell and there is no answer. I walk to find wifi on a street corner and send another message. Then, just to be on the safe side, I send a text asking when I can expect the host to be home.

45 minutes later, nothing. So I resort to phoning the host (an international call, which costs a pretty penny). She answers after a few rings and sounds totally blasé. I had walked 20 minutes in the freezing cold to the train station and was freaked out. I didn’t know this city and thought that maybe the reservation hadn’t been received and there was a glitch. I was clearly distressed, and I told her that I wasn’t happy with the lack of communication.

She rips into me, tells me she’s gonna cancel the reservation, and to go find a hotel. I’m taken aback and flustered. But after a conversation in which I explain my position and why how she handled the situation was really not cool, I decide that I would not feel comfortable in her home whatsoever.

I text and ask to cancel, as I’ve found a hotel by the train station that has room. Cue a flood of bullying, harassing essay-long text messages about how rude and inconsiderate I am. How dare I expect a response and for them to take their hosting semi-seriously.

Anyway, rant over. Eventually I did get a cancelation with refund. But I got so many awful, insulting text messages. I wish there was some way I could file a complaint for harassment, but AirBnb is purposefully vague about these things…
A$A$A
I had a guest from Italy for 3 months. I made dinner for her when she arrived and she made a point of telling me she threw it up.(I am a good cook and have published a cook book) Two days later, her son arrived without telling me to stay the entire time. She used my address to establish permanent residency in the U.S. and to open financial accounts without telling me. She took a hammer to my quartz countertop, causing $1000 in damage and then said it was gouged by someone else (no one else was in the house). She hung her underwear on my awnings to dry because she did not like the dryer. I came home to find her building wooden displays in my living room and with cans of black spray ready to paint them in my house. She poisoned my dog deliberately and I had to spend $800 at the vet. She took my carved wooden salad spoons from Africa and used them to stir pasta and ruined them. She said that anything I cooked smelled bad and I should eat out. She threw out pieces of silverware, chef's knives, and china. She threatened to write horrible reviews about me on Airbnb if I did not drive her where she wanted to go and help her with her errands. I called Airbnb for help and they were useless. They said it was my problem. The night she finally left she poured red wine all over expensive new white linens. I found out I could not collect the deposit or the Host Guarantee because I "did not have proof" even though I sent 20 pages of documents and photos. Airbnb requires a police report and this is impossible to obtain in Florida because any damages caused by a "resident" of a home have to be brought to civil court, not the police. That was the last guest I had on Airbnb. I have made friends and helped two couples move to Miami after they stayed with me. But the risks... and what the police told me.... make it not worth it. In my opinion, Airbnb is just Craigslist with nicer photos..... I do think bad people profile people on Airbnb... she made it clear she chose me because I am single and live alone... she said that since I am unmarried people would believe any negative review she wrote about me... I spoke to a psychiatrist and he told me she sounded like a malicious psychopath... she also was incredibly racist and insisted on talking constantly about how bad everyone else is....she cooked so much smoky stuff I had to have the kitchen ceiling repainted... the list goes on and on... I wound up locked in my room with my dog, counting down the days... I offered to pay for a five-star hotel if she would just leave but she laughed and said no... I think she got a malicious pleasure out of it... and it may be okay if a man winds up with a person like this but not so for a single woman... and just so you don't think I am crazy, the two couples who I met on Airbnb and helped find houses to buy here always pick mangoes off my tree, have dog play dates, and one couple is coming for dinner on Sunday
A$A$A
I’ve used Airbnb since more then 5 years and I’ve had a lot of great experiences, but I had a really bad night at an Airbnb in Madrid.

When I arrived at the property at the previously agreed upon check in time, the host was not there and didn’t pick up the phone. Nearly one hour later he came, but he didn’t apologize.

The place was a 1 bedroom apartment and my room was behind the living room at the opposite side of the entrance and bathroom, meaning I had to walk through the living room (with the sleeping host in it) to get in and out of the flat and to use the bathroom. Very weird.

In addition, the room was really dirty, messy and worn down

Visit the Airbnb tips blog for more useful Airbnb tips and vacation rental industry news. Are you a vacation rental owner or Airbnb host? Get your own professional vacation rental website here, try it free.

If you find this information useful, please upvote and follow.
A$A$A
Some guy wanted to have one of his friends stay in my place and it was fine with me. It was just a 2-day-stay and he said his other friends would stay at his own place.

 When i get back in the flat after two days for their checkout, there are 2 of the host's friends looking still sleepy and hangover (even though they only booked for one person) and they suggest exchanging the keys outside the flat. i take a quick look around the flat and it seems fine. after they go out i see that they have hidden a big ugly pee stain on my blanket and bedding and that there is also a big blue stain on the couch.

Tried to contact the guy who booked, but he didn't react.

So... more people than booked, ruined my blanket and couch and were sneaky liars about it.

I've found out by now that you should mostly not host people who are only there only for a short trip to Berlin (they won't tell you: to get drunk and party). As some general guideline: it's best to host couples, people on an educational journey (e.g. language school, studying), artists, people above 35, people who stay longer (from 1 week on) and people from China/Japan, because with all of these groups I have had only good experiences. Hope I don't offend anyone with these kind of groupings, it's just my experiences and it might be helpful to other hosts.
A$A$A
I hosted a man whose purpose in taking a trip was to spend a week getting drunk in my apartment. For a long time I didn't understand what was happening because I'd never known anyone with advanced alcoholism. That he was having some physical problems was very apparent- he would suddenly collapse while walking and his body trembles. But it wasn't the collapse of a drunk person- more like a sober person suddenly losing muscular control. So even when I found him asleep on the couch with a trail of spagetti down his shirt I was just reluctant to disturb his privacy.

Then he left the door to my apartment ajar. This I did need to speak him to about because it was an obvious invitation to burglary. He pretended that he had no idea how it happened. A day later the same thing occurred.

The last day that he was here was the first that I saw him drink in front of me. He had a bottle of vodka in his travel bag that he was drinking from. He forgot to replace the cap and spilled it inside his bag but did not notice. His flight time was rapidly approaching and I told him he needed to leave but he was nonsensical and verbally belligerent.

At this point I was completely unsure of what to do. I didn't want him in my apartment, I didn't want him to miss his flight but I couldn't reason with him. I ended up getting under his arm so that I could walk him down the steps. He was nearly dead weight. I managed to get us to the door but I realized that going down the steps would likely injure us both severely. I brought him back to the couch where he fell asleep almost instantaneously in a very odd body position.

At this point I thought of calling emergency services but wondered if I was being alarmist. This man had obviously been drinking for a large period of his life and probably would sleep these times off. I called Airbnb instead and they instructed me to call 911 if the person is "non-responsive".

I called 911 and two paramedics arrived in about ten minutes. They questioned me about who the man was and how I let someone become that badly off in my presence. When I responded that I didn't really know him they were incredulous.

They brought along some type of wheeled person-carrying contraption but perhaps due to the layout of the stairs they did not use it. I didn't watch  but heard the sounds of him going down the flights- each time it was rushed jumble of out of control steps followed by a long pause.

They then loaded him in the ambulance after which I never saw him again. I did however email him a few days later and he responded that he was fine and had made it home safely.

I do not know what to make of any of this. Is it a reason not to do Airbnb? Was any lasting harm done to me? Were the paramedics right that I was foolish to let someone I didn't know in my apartment? If I was doing it again what should I have done and when should I have done it?

Currently I have opted to ignore this warning and continue to do Airbnb.
A$A$A
This: Air BNB hides behind their function as booking engine and leaves all compliance concerns with the host. Being on the board of several condo buildings in Thailand, I continually hear other owners say “"oh I didn't know it's illegal to rent by day”. (Thai law states that rentals have to be declared income, the property has to pay tax and rentals cannot be less than 30 days). So, why does Air BnB just refer to their Terms which says each landlord is responsible for following the country’s laws? they know short term leases are illegal, but allow those to be posted on their site.

Air Bnb is an arrogant operation completely oblivious to adherence with local laws and how their short term guests disrupt the quiet enjoyment of neighboring apartments/condos/homes its simply disgusting.
A$A$A
Please, read this entire message to draw any conclusion. I am reporting exactly what happened. I wish to have a happy end.

*˜˜*˜˜*˜˜*˜˜*˜˜*

* Part 1  *

*˜˜*˜˜*˜˜*˜˜*˜˜*

Airbnb started with a great support service and since 2012, at least from host point of view, the quality is getting worse.

They are getting bigger and the support is getting worse. I hope they are at least ok. At the end of this story, I will be able to draw my conclusion about their quality. But for sure, they are not so good as they were in the past.

I know that Dennis Goedegebuure is the Airbnb SEO, but previous he used to work for eBay. eBay has the worse support ever. I never saw a company worse than eBay in terms of support. I really hope that Mr Goedegebuure is not behind the degradation of the quality of Airbnb support. If he is on charge of the Airbnb support, please someone fire him and hire someone that has a great support quality or hire the previous person on charge back, because the support was much better.

For the second time at this year, when someone try to see my property from AirBnB (.com) the "This listing is no longer available." message is displayed. However, in Airbnb (.ca) (I live in Canada), my property is perfectly displayed. It is very weird.

Where I am from, we have an expression "One mistake is human, twice is stupidity" (I hope that it could make sense in English). Airbnb is making the same mistake they made with me in the beginning of this year (2013). Yes, this error already happened with me in the beginning of this year.

To make the things even worse, I can't send messages to any guest and neither to any host.

I just called to Airbnb (Saturday) and they told me that they can't do anything and I have to wait for the "manager" that only works from Monday to Friday at California time zone. Thus, I will have to wait 2 days to someone to start to solve the problem. When I had this same problem in the beginning of this year (2013),  Airbnb spent more than 5 days to solve the problem. It is possible that I lost some bookings because this issue in that time and, perhaps, I may loose again.

I never try to negotiate with the guests outside Airbnb. I do even the opposite: when the guests tries to negotiate with me outsise Airbnb to save some money with the Airbnb's fees, I convince they to stay in Airbnb. I never exchange emails or website in my messages. I would say that I am a host that do everything by the book.

As you can see in my previous posts in Quora, I always defended Airbnb. Previously, they deserved my compliments. However, now, they deserve my

criticism.

I asked them to send a message to my guests explaining the situation, since they cannot find my properties in Airbnb neither send me messages to me. I am not sure if they really sent or not, because they did not copy me and I did not talked to any guest so far neither. I already left a message to them in their voice mail asking them to call or send an email.

Shame on you Airbnb. You had a great support in the past. Now I had to wait more than 25minutes to talk to someone and this person was not able to solve the problem. In the past, the support answered the calls almost right away and they were able to solve any issue. Now, they only write the complain and forward them.

To make things even worse, I have one guests that is checking today and they cannot read the message that I sent to the guests with instructions and information about the area (groceries stores, restaurants, tickets etc). I have one guest that will checking in 7 days and I cannot send them the instruction about the house using Airbnb. I will have to send by email.

I like to send the message using Airbnb because if the guest has a problem and, for any reason, they cannot talk to me, they can call to Airbnb and ask for help. I hope they can still do it, but I am starting to have my doubts.

I will post here the status of the issue here, thus, anybody can draw any conclusion if they have or not a good support.



*˜˜*˜˜*˜˜*˜˜*˜˜*

* Part 2  *

*˜˜*˜˜*˜˜*˜˜*˜˜*

24 hours from my first call to Airbnb to report my issue, I received the message bellow. I am happy that I received this message. I received this message on Sunday. My property is back live again, at least I can't see the issue by myself. I asked to my guests checked this and let me know if it is ok. I think I can send messages. I am not sure if the guests are receiving, but at least the messages are being logged in the history, what was not happening at all. I am also available to receive messages, at least from owners.

I will post here the status of the issue here, thus, anybody can draw any conclusion if they have or not a good support. I still wish that they can show me that they are still at least not bad.



G*** P, May 12 09:25 (PDT): 

Hello Jose,

Thank  you for alerting us to the problems that you are experiencing with your  account. We investigated the root cause of this and we have fixed the  technical issue that was affecting your account. You should now have  full access to your account and all of your listings will be visible to  the entire Airbnb community as soon as the system has had time to reset  in the next few hours, if they aren't visible already.

If you  experience any further outages or issues with your account, please let  us know right away so that we may assist. Our sincere apologies for any  inconvenience this may have caused. Thank you for your time and for  being such a valued member of the Airbnb community; we wish you all the  continued success!

All the best,

G*** P

Help and FAQ for Airbnb

*˜˜*˜˜*˜˜*˜˜*˜˜*

* Part 3  *

*˜˜*˜˜*˜˜*˜˜*˜˜*

1 day after the email from Airbnb support, my account is working normally.

I contacted all my guests that will checking in the next weeks and they replied back. Airbnb already contacted the guests that I asked to be notified about the incident.

I am happy with the response that the support provide. However, I hope that this problem never happen with me again. Two times is enough.
A$A$A
I had a bad experience as well.

A guest stayed with me from 24th May till 31st May and then 1st June till 5th June...13 days. But Airbnb has still not paid me.

They replied to my email queries saying that they are awaiting an update from their payment processing partner regarding the trace for my payout funds. My earlier payment came in time but this time no sign of payment after more than 20 days!! And you cannot do anything about it other than wait for their email response. You cannot even escalate it to Airbnb higher up!

My guest was kind enough to email to me receipts of his payment to Airbnb. This means Airbnb is sitting on my payment and I am totally helpless.

Has anyone also noticed that Airbnb pays only after 5-7 working days (while they commit payment one day after guest checks in) when net banking funds transfer takes only one day? This means Airbnb is using the funds for 5-6 days. This is a huge amount considering their huge business. This is in addition to their commission.

Further, I have not stayed as a guest through Airbnb but I wonder if after having paid to Airbnb, in case you do not get the booking you will be losing the money as well as reservation. We all believe in Airbnb's reputation and deal but there is a big WHAT IF ??
A$A$A
The possibility to rate guests.

I’m sure it was intended to be beneficial, but they didn’t think it to the end.

On Airbnb host often give guests bad reviews just based on the character of the guest, not based on how they treated the apartment.

I’m an active Airbnb user and I have received bad reviews in following situations.

I kept heating on too high temperate (according to host) in winter.

While staying a week in an apartment I did not go to hang out with the host nor talked with him, other than when arriving and leaving (he lived in the same building).

When wanting to extend my stay the host asked me for higher day price than in his Airbnb ad, I pointed this out and later he agreed to standard prices.

I didn’t go to have an ice cream with the host, when at first provisionally agreed to it.

When arriving to apartment I was tired and did not want to listen the hosts 30 minute long presentation about the city and what to see there.

I used heating to heat up apartment which the host claimed to be non-functional just to save money. This was in the winter and there was no other heating method.

From all of these trips I got a bad review (and there was no other misunderstanding nor any damage to the apartment). Some told the exactly what happen, while some just wrote “bad experience” etc. The saddest part is that I left all them good review because they were generally nice and the apartment was as described.

Now I I had 6 negative reviews and due to that twice a potential host has refused to rent me an apartment as he though I was not a suitable guest for him. This is not something nice knowing that actually I have always treated the apartment with care and there was no issues whatsoever.

So what Airbnb actually does here is drive away clients that are good but maybe not very social. This only leads to me renting an apartment from Booking-com where host are not allowed to leave reviews.
A$A$A
My boyfriend and I recently stayed in a house in Liberia, Costa Rica that had nothing but stelllar reviews about the host and the space. In Costa Rica bugs are everywhere and sometimes hard to avoid-- I get that. However, most people CONTROL the bugs and at least use screens or provide netting for the beds. Our host did not. Large ants crawled all over the floors and walls of the house, spiders were seriously everywhere (the largest spider I've ever seen was just hanging out on our bedroom wall), I took a shower with a frog (was kinda cute, but STILL), and when my boyfriend moved one of his bags a scorpion came crawling towards us. Pretty scary if you ask me. Our host made us a delicious Costa Rican breakfast, but when I walked over to the sink to put the dishes in (I even offered to wash them but he said no) I looked in the pan of rice and beans and little bugs were crawling all over the food. The fresh fruit he cut us was also full of creepy crawlers. The house was literally filled with bugs. I honestly felt more comfortable sitting outside. Okay,  now onto the host. He was nice, but a TALKER. And really liked to talk about HIMSELF and his religious, political, and discriminating views. He made it very clear that his religion was the most superior, he talked smack on the United States and how Costa Rica was a much better country (I love Costa Rica but I live my country just as much), made fun of people like "hipsters" (he made it extremely clear that he hated them), talked smack on yoga (I practice and teach), talked about organic products and how people who use them are wasting their money (also, my boyfriend and I shop organic), and so much more. I can't express how angry and uncomfortable this host made me feel. He brought up every subject on his own and would not shut up. It was awful. I will be much more cautious when using airbnb services from now on.
A$A$A
This is a story posted by my sister in Indonesian on her blog about our experience with using Airbnb in Japan. I try my best to translate it into English.

"We booked 1 private room for 6 nights in Tokyo few weeks before our trip. Both my sister and I were travelling together, so for safety reasons, we purposely chose a female host, named Aya. I've checked the reviews before booking and there were good reviews about Aya. One week before our departure, I received an email, a reminder from Airbnb for our stay in Aya's. However, the host of the listing is no longer Aya. It was changed into a guy named Wata. I'm new to Airbnb, so I asked my sister who has used Airbnb before. She said that normally a host might have a co-host or a partner, so maybe Wata is Aya's partner. Therefore I didn't think much of it.

Once we've reached Tokyo, we chose to take MRT to Aya's (which I will call Wata's from now on). In fact, it's very difficult to find the apartment even though we were following the instructions given to us via email. Because our flight arrived late at night, we reached at Wata's quite late, at around 12 midnight. I've been in contact with Wata via airbnb message, but he mentioned that he would go to bed first, so he could not meet us when we arrived.

Day 1: There were 3 female Indonesian guests as well, stayed in the 1st floor. There were total of 3 rooms for rent via Airbnb. 1 room is in the 1st floor, which can fit upto 4 people. Wata's room is in the 2nd floor, where the kitchen is. Our room is in the 3rd floor. There's 1 more room opposite of our room. The Indonesian guests were the one who introduced us to the house, where the bathroom is, the light switch, how to lock/ unlock the front door etc. One of them even brought us to one of the nearest convenient store. However, they were flying back to Jakarta the next day, so we didn't get to see them again.

When we enter the room, it's obvious that the room did not get tidied up. My sister found a used up cotton pad, like the one we use to remove make up with. There was an empty paper bag idling on the floor. The floor of the room was dusty and dirty. Actually the apartment looks modern and new (which is one of the reason why we chose this place). Since then we were feeling uncomfortable plus tired from our journey, still dusting the floor with tissues. There were strains of hair and dust amassed.

Later on, we only realised that there's no inside lock for the room. We only received a portable lock that can only be used to lock the door from outside when we leave the room. At that time, we did not want to make a complain yet because we were too exhausted. Then we went to the bathroom, which is quite tiny. Moreover, the bathroom lock is openable from the outside easily. We have to watch ourselves out when taking a shower in case that someone is unknowingly enter the bathroom. That night, we coudn't really sleep with ease.

(Bathroom door looks like this)

(The bathroom door lock, up to lock, down to unlock, the same way from inside and outside of the bathroom)

Going into the 2nd night: In the morning, Wata was in the 2nd floor. We saw the guy who stays in the room opposite of ours sitting there as well. Wata was polite, he sent us to the nearest train station after. We really appreciate his friendliness, we have not yet told him about our concern at that time. Then we went out for the whole day.

In the evening, the room downstairs filled up with 3 boys. This made the two of us the only female staying in the apartment. We were uneasy taking shower in a bathroom with insecure lock, so we took turn. When I was showering, my sister is waiting in the sink area (another small room with a washing machine just before the bathroom) which has a sliding door. Suddenly there was a knock, maybe someone is trying to check wether there's anybody inside (the rule is written on the wall just outside tells us to leave the door open when we left the bathroom to indicate that the bathroom is empty). Luckily I was there waiting, I said it out loud "someone's inside". I quickly finish up and went back to the room with my sister.

Eventually, it was getting really uncomfortable. We seek advice from our brother and his wife, they assented that our discomfort and anxiety are understandable. Since we are girls, travelling in a foreign country. To avoid any harms, it's best to leave.

That night, we booked a hotel to move out of there a soon as the 3rd night. Again, we could not sleep well.

On our third day: We went to Tsukiji Market early in the morning and planned to move out in the noon. Once we're back from the market, we discussed with Wata about our concern during the 2 nights stay there. I asked him, where'a Aya. In fact, Aya is no longer taking care of the house and Wata is her replacement. They were only minions and there's a Master who owns the listing. In the beginning, Wata offered us a refund for the rest of the 4 nights. He asked us to wait as he wanted to inform his boss first. In the end, he told us that his boss did not want to give us the refund because it is in the Airbnb rules.

We moved out and continued chatting with Wata via email. In the email, I didn't expect that he and his boss were blaming me for what happened to us. He stated that we should have raised our concern on our first night. They even insist that the safety issues are not their responsibility. They told us to check Airbnb rules, which really mentions nothing about safety like locks. At first I was gonna let it go and not to fight for any refund because Wata was actually a nice guy. But since they kept putting the blame on me and defending themselves to avoid giving me refund, I decided to write to Airbnb management directly. I'm totally pissed off!

In my opinion, there are so much room for improvement in Airbnb. They neglected safety issue. Imagine, a house with 5 men and only 2 girls. At least provide us with personal lock and a secure bathroom. I also reported about host changes without prior notice, which imo could be an aid for serious criminal activities. Aya's got many positive reviews, where Wata has none. Obviously both of them have different service quality. Too bad, we were the unlucky ones.

After a few emails finally Airbnb management refunded the 4 nights stay. Hopefully my experience could be a lesson for your upcoming trips. Avoid unwanted occurrence."

I'm sorry if it's too long. But I really do hope this helps to answer the question.

For those who wants to read the original version, it's here: Kat Megumi's - Timeline
A$A$A
I recently booked a place in London for several nights with my friend. My first day there was nice and the host seemed very welcoming. She offered to pick me up from the metro station and even made a small dinner for me. I was delighted that my experience was going well. She did seem disorganized as I had to ask about the bathroom, house keys, wifi and the room wasn't properly set up. I was a bit confused because I saw nothing but positive reviews for her profile, and it didn't seem like this was the first time she was hosting.

The sequential days that followed were less than pleasant. She was not upfront with her expectations with me and would constantly stop by the room to inform me of what she disliked. Most of the issues were trivial (such as she didn't like to see our clothes on top of our suitcase, or we should keep our apples in a cupboard), and since we were only staying there for a short time I quickly apologized and did what she wished. We were gone for most of the day in the city and were only there in the evenings. We hardly used the kitchen, and we would go to sleep early, so I did not understand where most of her issues were coming from. I did feel very unwelcome afterwards and that this was an intrusion in the space I was renting.

However, after my stay I wrote a constructive neutral review. I thanked her for her hospitality but stated in general terms that I felt there was a lack of organization. I separately sent her another email specifying on what made me uncomfortable and suggested things she should improve upon in the room. Later on I received a nasty review from her saying that I was a terrible guest. She said we stole her food, did not ask to use her things, had our clothes all over the floor, and disrespected her house rules. I was confused about what house rules she is referring to since she gave me no instructions for my stay. Obviously she lied or exaggerated the situation, and cannot accept constructive criticism. She later also sent a separate message saying my friend's hair was all over her house, which I find hilarious because her house was less than tidy since she had two teenage girls.

I was really surprised to find my experience to be so uncomfortable. While nothing terrible happened to me such as someone stealing my belongings or a house full of drugs, it has made me distrust Airbnb. Like I stated before, all of the reviews this woman had were superb and glowing. It's hard for me to believe that no one else had this problem with her or that I was merely discriminated against. After talking to other friends that use Airbnb, most people agree that they hardly see negative reviews. Most reviews are very positive. I believe that if you leave a bad or not so positive review like mine you are punished severely by the other person's review even if Airbnb encourages you to write honest reviews. I'm not sure if I will try to contact the company about this since I doubt they could help much or care about my issue, and I would just waste valuable time being angry. Next time, I would rather book a hostel, hotel, or a real bed and breakfast with reviews on yelp. As for this woman, I should probably suck up my ego and refrain from messaging her since it's obvious she is not thinking logically.
A$A$A
I was interviewed by Fox News in Los Angeles to comment on one particularly disturbing case. 

A recently paroled convict rented out an Airbnb home in Silverlake, CA and videoed himself making a rap videos with automatic weapons, machete's and scantily clad women grinding on furniture. He then spent the evening inviting strangers back to his pop-up transvestite prostitution ring (which the reporters were nice enough to share photos of).  For the icing on the cake, he cleared the property of all it valuables upon when he departured.

Beat that!

Video below.. but they leave out most of the good stuff!

FOX 11 Investigates: Triple X Rentals
A$A$A
We stayed in a “comfy little bungalow,” as the heading for the place on VRBO proclaimed, in the general area of Corpus Christi, tauted as being a “steal” for the price: “close to the water, great for birding, pet-friendly, charming as can be.” Well, the pix were very inviting (but several years old, we later realized, because the paint was actually peeling on the outside, even though in the pictures it looked brand new). Rather than being “comfy,” the place was dreadful, straight out of a Stephen King movie. It was a “steal” all right, as we were totally ripped off. All it needed was the clown from “It” to crawl out from under the cement blocks the place rested on. First of all, the grass hadn’t been cut in several weeks and it was full of snakes, although most of them, to be fair [LOL], were dead (dog friendly? no way), the birds we watched consisted mostly of long-S-necked vulchers looking for snakes to eat in the “lawn” (and also eyeing our little dogs a little too enthusiastically), the water view was a postage stamp snippet seen in the distance, the outside was swarming with huge ants seeking entrance into the house, and inside when you sat on it, the toilet rocked back and forth like you had set sail on the high seas. It was a real charmer all right! Oh and the neighbors. On one side, there was a run down old beat up unpainted wooden structure with a sagging roof, surrounded with huge unkept bushes that made it almost impossible to see from either the front or the back, a mean looking dog that traumatized our little dogs with its fangs, and old lawn mowers, refrigerators, and broken down bikes and furniture scattered everywhere. It was like a Halloween haunted house, just without a witch (although for all we know, there could have been one inside). We informed the owners of our concerns, and they told us that everyone else seemed to love the bungalow. The other visitors appeared to consist primarily of fishermen who fished all day, as we gathered from the fishy odor lingering in the kitchen, and who drank most of the night, as we gathered from all the beer bottles and cans in the trash bin outside that hadn’t been taken to the curb in several weeks, so of course they loved it. The owners therefore thought we just were trying to weasel our money back (clearly that was not going to happen and that was not our first motivation in calling them). The owners lived in Canada and hadn’t visited the property in several years, so the place had to be managed locally, but I don’t think the people managing it were doing a good job (obviously not) nor were they giving honest updates to the owners. The only good thing about the place was that it was dirt cheap (and it was reasonably clean, with the beds made at least!). That’s why the fishermen found it the perfect place because the only thing they did there was fry fish, get drunk, crash, and start all over again the next day. They didn’t care about the “other amenities.” We should have paid attention to one of their online reviews, which said, “It’s the perfect fish shack, no more, no less.” Nuff said! Lesson learned!
A$A$A
We got scammed in Airbnb recently! The host had uploaded misleading photographs and texts, making us believe that we had booked a Villa when instead he was renting a 1-room apartment! This happend in Kifissia - Athens, Greece. Airbnb hasn't refunded us our 350€, and the host is playing it "hard". We left the property the same day we arrived, taking pictures to prove our case and went to a hotel. It's a shame because Greeks are known of been friendly and welcoming their guests. Not in this case! The listing in question was this one: Elegant Accommodation in Kifisia in Kifisia

We are convinced that it’s Airbnb’s fault, and that they don’t check hosts ads, allowing them to upload material to market their properties in non-ethical ways - mostly due to their ignorance. Airbnb keeps the hosts anonymous, so we don’t even know who is the host in question: Elegant Accommodation in Kifisia in Kifisia
A$A$A
Nightmare experience as Host: my account got deleted for no reason by Airbnb, and lost 10,000+ USD reservations.

I just hosted for less than one month, got two guests (all five-star review), have another 6, 7 booking. Without any notice or explanation, my account got deleted, with my listing and all the reservations.

I contacted airbnb customer support for many times, but always the same answer: "probably a technical issue, will get back to you soon".
A$A$A
We have used the site a few times with good results.

This time we were charged a full month's rent simply by clicking on "contact host" and asking him if he would make a deal for a longer term stay. 

We are very technical people and know how the site works.  We certainly never accepted a charge or made an actual reservation.

And yet AirBNB claims that we did make a reservation. 

And now we have learned, that what AirBNB claims, it's the the final word. 

So, as of now we are out a little over a thousand dollars.  Right in the middle of our vacation!

I mostly liked AirBNB before, but now I will avoid them.  They won't listen or don't care.  Anyhow.   I hope this helps someone else.

update feb 16. it occurred to me the reason airbnb won't refund our money is due to suspicion of fraud.  what a mess!  We certainly did not create the reservation and yet we were charged.  And all they have to go on are their computer records.  I'll update this as AirBNB works through our issue. 

Other annoyances with our issue:  all of the emails to us regarding this bogus "booking" were in French.  Just because we were traveling in Morocco does not mean we understand French!
A$A$A
My bad experiences:

Sofa burnt out

Carpet completely flooded by alcohol

Eaten up the all the rescue foods

When I got a report from my cleaner, I was shocked. If the alcohol was strong one, it could cause the whole building fire. They flooded the carpet and lit the sofa on fire.

I had the same frustrating process to get back the cost I had to pay for damages that my guest has made.

In my case, I could follow the Airbnb host guarantee process perfectly with required bills and damage evidences, everything has done within 48 hours limit.

And, the guest (5 boys in a group) who damaged the room had admitted what they have done but they did not want to pay full amount of money to recover the damage. Let’s say, the damage was 1000 USD, he wanted to pay 500 USD only saying the damage was caused by one of a boy in the group, not whole group has done.

Of course I did not accept his excuse.

After several processing, Airbnb closed the case suddenly as saying the decision was made by the 3rd party. I have got only less than the half price of what I claimed.

Conclusion: If host can provide all the bills and evidences and follow the guarantee process perfectly, host ends up in red.

Some of bad guests damages a room on purposely, because they know the host won’t claim to Airbnb because anyway it makes host in red.

Through my host experiences, I have learnt: There are lots of stupid people around the world.

I am sorry to hear your bad experience.
A$A$A
I thought I had had a bad experience as a host. Now I see I'm fortunate.

A young woman wanted to rent my place in Manhattan. She had no reviews and said she was from LA and a singer. Of course I said no. She said please. I said no. She begged..I said OK. Yes, it's my fault.

I returned from Boston to find the place a mess, towels everywhere, sink full of dishes, and the window to the fire escape wide open. My comforter had holes torn in the corners so it could be used to cover the window (presumably so she could sleep during the day). There were used needles in the bathroom.

My fault. Still, a bad experience.
A$A$A
We booked a private room for 3 nights in VA beach for July 4th weekend. The apt was listed as non-smoking. We found a pervasive, extremely pungent cigarette smell all over the apt--it was in the sheets, the towels, the pillows, etc. In addition, the apt was not clean. The bathroom sink had facial hair on it; there was a large spot of dirt/grime around the toilet. There was a piece of toilet paper on the bedroom carpet. The kitchen sink was dirty and had dirty dishes in it. The patio was littered with cigarette butts. The apt was nasty. In addition, a cat (not present) had lived in the apt and my boyfriend was allergic to cats--the host was not transparent about this. The host was not home, but in NYC where he could do little to address our concerns. We contacted Airbnb about these issues within the 24-hr timeframe, hoping for a refund or alternate accommodations. They told the host to find someone to come clean the apt. No surprise--he could not find anyone that weekend. At every turn, Airbnb always gave the host the benefit of the doubt, even when he lied outrageously. He said he never smoked inside the apt, but only outside. He said the stains around the toilet were from a remodeling project and were not dirt--this was complete bull. We stayed two nights and left early. Our host initially agreed to give us two night's refund, in discussions with Airbnb. Then he reneged and said one night's refund, again while in discussions with Airbnb. In the end, Airbnb offered to give us one night's refund while the host would give us an additional night's refund. Right now, we are still waiting for this "refund" from our host. In this whole dispute resolution process, Airbnb was almost ineffectual and let our host lie and manipulate the process.

Airbnb is really only an advertising platform where people can rent out apts. They cannot do any quality assurance or effective conflict resolution. I have learned my lesson and will now only use hotels. I'd rather stay at a motel 6--at least then I'd know what to expect.
A$A$A
Me and a couple of mates were driving a Rickshaw from Kerela to Jaisalmar in India. One day whilst driving through Goa we decided to stay at this phenomenal villa with 3 beds, a pool and a 10 min walk to the beach. We booked it the night before and got up early next morning and drove towards our villa.

As soon as we got there, two guys opened up and said come on to your room ( uhmmmm what?) and we realised immediately that all was not what it seemed. The room was nice enough but we had paid quite a lot and was disappointed because:

1) one room as opposed to a villa

2) the pool was not the villas pool but for the whole complex

3) smelled of weed everywhere

4) the 10 minutes walk to the beach we needed to be near was actually 41 mins

I rang Airbnb and got a confirmation the advert lied and so after an awkward exit we made our way to the beach area in search of a new hotel.

Long story short … We booked the Lalit via Hotwire and yes it was amazing
A$A$A
Fresh off the plane after a 9 hour flight from Sydney to Narita. Do paperwork to collect pocket Wifi took about 45 minutes. About 2 hour or so train to Shibuya. Dragged our luggage through really uneven streets and staircases. Pulled out the check in instructions and the pass code to the mailbox lock containing the key was wrong. It was the middle of summer around 30+ degrees Celsius and humid. Hungry, tired, hot and irritated.

The host had changed the pass code and not told us. If we did not have pocket WiFi to notify the host we would have been stuck outside trying every 3 number combination until we could gain access. Stressful times. Luckily they answered promptly. Once we got inside it wasn't much better. The towels were musty smelling and damp. Fumbled around the dark to find the lights when we stepped in. Couldn't find anything.

Luckily Japan is one of the better countries to host airbnb. The rest of our 8 other stays were great.
A$A$A
I stayed on a really awesome artichoke farm Airbnb with some of my girlfriends for a girl’s weekend. The first night I drank a lot of wine and some of us decided to go into the hot tub that was on the dimly lit deck. After sitting in there for a few hours and chatting, we showered and went to bed. Next day, we went kayaking, came back, and a few of the other girls decided to jump in the hot tub. One girl mentioned that the water was a bit green and it looked murkey. Sunday evening my neck was a little hot and Monday morning I woke up covered from my ears all the way down my back with hot tub folliculitis. It was so painfully itchy. I had to go on antibiotics for 10 days, take oatmeal baths, and have my husband put warm compresses on my back. Only one other girl got a mild rash and everyone else was fine. Lesson learned: check the hot tub before dark and before drinking wine… probably one of the top 10 most uncomfortable weeks of my life.
A$A$A
Bonito piso en la Barceloneta in Barcelona -> Be warned...we booked this place for our first trip ever to Barcelona, this is what we encountered:

1) creative photography made the place look bigger, it's TINY.  Not a huge deal, but I'm 6' 3"  the bed was tiny, and ratty.  The futon was ratty.  Trash under the futon, food debris on the counter (crumbs). 

2) Alexandro (host) explained that the windows were open because they had an exterminator in there because the previous guests complained about roaches....yup...and that the white powder on the kitchen floor was just residue.  But not to worry, cuz it didn't stink any more. 

3) We asked if the air conditioner worked, he said, of course...turned it on, cooled off immediately.  My wife and I left for a short period to decide whether we wanted to stay, came back, and the neighbor had left a note on the door complaining that water was leaking into his apartment...evidently the hose from the AC was leaking. 

4) We decided to leave, after talking to our host to tell him this.  We were then told that there were towels and utensils missing.  (<sarcasm>My wife and I obviously had decided to go to spain, to stay in an Airbnb place, to increase our towel/utensil collection</sarcasm>)

We walked through barcelona to find a new place to stay, which we did, and it ended up being very nice (Illunion Hotel).  But this place was awful.  We asked for a refund, not the important part, as the total was like 250, but we have not recieved it yet, and Airbnb told us that we would not be getting a refund from them.

Be warned about this place.  And be warned that there are some listings out there that are pretty awful...we definitely did not look well enough on this one.
A$A$A
“Thank you for getting in touch with us. We understand that this may have been a difficult and frustrating process…” This is AirBNB’s response to absolutely everything. As a company they do nothing but host a website.

I’ve never successfully used the service. I have family that lives in Chicagoland, but not really near any hotels [why aren’t there hotels near Metra stations?]. I would like to visit them without the cost of renting a car. So I’ve tried AirBNB. And the reservation gets canceled. One time less than 48 hours before I get on the train. Fortunately that ZipCar was still available so I could get to that hotel 8 miles away from the station.

There is no way I will ever use AirBNB when I travel - no guarantee - show up in some city with nowhere to stay. It’s ludicrous.
A$A$A
I went to NYC for the first time a couple of years ago. My girlfriend/travel partner made the abnb arrangements weeks in advance. She had corresponded for weeks with, what seemed like, a very nice mother of two. She received the final email the day we were travelling, offering to pick us up at the airport. We declined the very kind offer and choose to ride public transportation. When we arrived, we were surprised not to find this kind mother of two, but rather a man claiming to be her husband. Within 5 minutes of arrival, we figured out that we had only rented a room, not the entire apartment, and this man was probably not married, and certainly didn't have two children living there. It felt like the opening scene of a law and order episode. Thankfully, we all carry computers in our pockets now. We were able to find other arrangements. ABNB would do nothing to help us out. I will never do that again.
A$A$A
Comparing to other bad experiences here, mine is not that bad but it was bad enough  to made me upset and frustrated on that time.

I went to Italy last summer with a friend and when we finally found the place we were going to stay, someone just came by and told that he was expecting us.

He told that the last guests were too noisy and broke lots of staff at home, so the real owner who was living downstairs was angry and told him that he doesnt want short-term rentals in the apartment. So he took us to another place he rents which was way too small, not that central, and not bright one. He said he was so sorry and made some discount but I think it was not enough because I smoke and wanted a place with a balcony. The new one did not have one, nor an elevator. So I had to go down 4 floors to smoke 3-4 times a day.

Apparently he tried to find the best solution he could but it would have been nicer if he tell us earlier so we could have found somewhere else.
A$A$A
Thomas Wasson is host in Meatpacking District NYC

This can't be happening again? But it did. We booked with Thomas Last year because we liked his place, and we liked him. We came in however and had to wait 5 hours to get into our room because it wasn't ready. The cleaning person was MIA. Thomas comped us which was nice and we felt we should give him a 2nd chance. We booked for three days this time hoping for better and the same exact thing happened. Room wasn't ready. Cleaning woman was in ER.. We were then moved over to another room and we found hairs in it that did not belong to us. Not really sure it was cleaned either. We ended up sleeping fully clothed on a few of the nights we staid there. Other issues: Wifi was out, broken TV in hallway, Broken outlet in hall way, Broken air vent in hallway, no safety rail on lower stairs, cracked window in room, no soap in shower, 1/2 used baby shampoo in shower. The real scary part I discovered however is there are no smoke detectors or carbon monoxide detectors in the whole rental space... Needless to say we will not be back. It's a real shame this place had a great deal of promise.
A$A$A
My only bad experience with Airbnb was in Istanbul in February/March 2015. I was in Istanbul for one night, and instant booked a place with a great location but only a couple of ratings.

I arrived early, and went to a hotel where I called the host through the help of a bellman. The bellman visibly wilted when the host answered and he told me the host was “not a good person” and wished me luck. I found it odd, but fascinated by the city, I wandered around until check in time. When I got to the host location, I was greeted by the host, and taken immediately across the street to hotel.

He had limited English, but was able to tell me that I was rude for using instant book and calling him through a third party. I was told I’d be staying at the hotel. The hotel was okay but the interaction with the host was very unpleasant.

He left me my one and only bad Airbnb review. I informed Airbnb but never got a response. But I do not regret visiting Istanbul and continue to Airbnb when possible.
A$A$A
My case is different from many travelers. I am a tour guide in Japan. Many of my customers are looking for a deal, but do not speak Japanese. They are also looking for value added experience.

My own personal bad experience is simply having once stayed a boring stay at a dodgy place that actually cost more than other smaller experienced B&Bs (or even a cheap room at a business hotel) in the area. It was boring and way overpriced. If the owner had been there, as with Couchsurfing, it would have been great, and worth it. But it was just a normal apartment rented by some company in order to rent out to Air B&B customers expecting a unique experience.

I often have customers who use Air B&B come to me and they stay at the B&Bs which have actual hosts dedicated to making their trip memorable, and are legal. They, without exception, prefer a hosted full service B&B that is cheaper and food is cooked for them and they get local cultural interaction.

I have had people come from an Air B&B (not recommended by me) who have told me how much nicer it is to have a host. They felt alone and helpless, and there was no cultural learning for them. I felt sorry. It was not bad accommodation, but it was just sad that they missed on any cultural significance and paid more.

Might be good for a business traveler, but business hotels are much cheaper usually, and full service with all night front desk.
A$A$A
This is my first ever answer in Quora.

Last summer I was interrailing with my friends. We were a group of 5 and we were struggling to find some hostels and we decided to use Airbnb in our 37 day journey. We started from Rome and had a very nice host and our next stop was Florence.

We booked a place before we get on the train and once we landed, we used Google Maps to walk our way to the house with our backpacks. We decided to use Google Maps because the host did not answer us when we asked him for directions to the house from the terminal.

We were starting to get worried for a bit when we were closing on our destination, because we couldn't get in touch with the host at all. At last we came to the same street as listed and we were trying to find the house by looking at the numbers on houses. We failed because there was no one to be seen and greet us. My friends asked me to leave my backpack and walk up and down on the street. When I was walking down the street a lady called my name.

It was our host -well not our host per se but someone the host appointed to greet us- She showed us around the house. It had a beautiful terrace, it was a bit dirty (unwashed bed sheets etc.) But not a problem for five 20-year old male best friends on an interrail trip. We wouldn't mind a bit messiness.

We picked our beds, bought a bottle of wine (It was evening when we arrived we decided to not tour Florence but plan our next stop) We laughed and drank and it was 1 AM when we decided to get some sleep. It was at this moment we've had our lowest point at our trip.

My friend and I were in the lower floor of the apartment and three others were sleeping in thr upper floor. My friend called us all and said "We are leaving" we said why and he showed us the lizard that lurked beside his bed. Normally, no one would care about a lizard they are stoic little things, but this one was huge. It was around 20 centimeters and when combined with dirty sheets, unresponding host (The lady who gave us the apartment was a real sweet lady, she tried her best to help us, but again, she was not the host and her knowledge about the apartment and Florence was very limited) and some spiders, (which we had spotted but did not mind them) we decided we had enough and left the apartment.

We stayed in Florence for 2 nights. We slept on the streets (When we left the apartment, a nice lady showed us where we could safely sleep in the street) and when we told our experience to Airbnb, we were given a full refund and a little bit of bonus which made a pretty fun story looking back on it.
A$A$A
My worst Airbnb experience involved having to haul a giant floor rug outside to shake it out. The vacuum cleaner was broken, the host waived a cleaning fee with the expectation the house be returned in the same condition it was left it, and my friend who booked the place didn’t want a negative review. The rug was actually cleaner after my efforts than when we got there, but my friend went on and on about the clean and cozy cabin in her review. To be fair, the slightly dirty rug was no big deal, and the fact that this minor inconvenience is my worst experience is why I keep using the service.

Source: Airbnb guest management system for multiple accounts
A$A$A
I've used Airbnb in several countries, as well as the US. The only negative experience I had was in Madison, WI where the host switched units on us - and into an inferior one. It was the same building (lakeside apartments), but the unit we received keys for screamed "college boy trying to make a buck". It was a different bed, crusty towels, different furniture - and most disgusting - greasy pillowcases.

We called Airbnb immediately. Had to wait on hold for 20 minutes, but once we got through they were super helpful. We had to send pictures to prove the inconsistencies. And because communication was mainly through the site (save for some sporadic texts), the Airbnb folks could track the entire conversation.

Once they validated the issue they found us a Hyatt in Madison to stay at - for free. They also refunded my money. It was a hassle, but clearly an outlier, and extremely well handled by AirBnB. I've had no other issues with a stay, everything else was perfectly pleasurable.
A$A$A
In Mendocino, "Two Story Family Cottages" has listed a "Flexible"cancellation policy re Airbnb (which Airbnb lists as 1 day) BUT the House Rules say "14 days". When I emailed the "Innkeeper", Kevin, replied that it IS a 14 day cancellation policy AND that there is an additional charge of 11% tax NOT included in the Airbnb price. What's worse is that it is impossible to contact Airbnb to complain about the listing. I had a similar experience in Vancouver with a place that was listed as "air conditioning" and only had a fan -- and when I listed this with a note to Airbnb as well as telling the "Host" nothing was done and the listing was still the same 2 months later.
A$A$A
Met a wacky host who after I lived there claimed $X00 in security deposit because "I stole stuff from him/her".

This is an absurd claim and defamation. I just rejected the request and don't know what it is coming next but it makes me wonder, airbnb has those insurance things to protect hosts but what about guests? What if hosts make false claims?  What if the host steals from the guest?

What are in place to protect guests?
A$A$A
Other than the fact that most white people choose to refuse accommodation to colored people, nothing is wrong with airbnb. I'm sure there'll be a lot of naysayers to my posts but having tried my luck in Europe, I pretty much gave up. Rather stay in hostels which I find cheaper and love the conversations (ironically with white people who're surprised at this behavior). While there might be cases, the fact still remains.
A$A$A
I have owned a vacation rental business for about 12 years, and have been a host on the Airbnb site for nearly six years. I had a negative experience with Airbnb last March, and I thought I'd covered everything to prevent it from happening again, but a recent incident proved differently.

Unfortunately, I was recently contacted by a neighbor who complained of noise at around 3am from my guests during their second night of a 2-night stay. I contacted the guests, brought it to their attention that they were in violation of the house rules, and asked that they be quiet. When the guest made it clear he was not going to act according to the house rules, so I called Airbnb and conferenced in the police department as advised by the Airbnb rep. The Airbnb rep told me that I had their full support in evicting the guests, that the payout would not be affected, and that I did the right thing.

Two police officers met me at the property and assisted with the eviction process whilst the guests heckled and accosted me for more than 2 hours. I followed up with Airbnb at 5:30am to make sure they had everything they needed. The rep assured me that the payout was not affected, that Airbnb “has my back to the fullest” and claimed they will also need a police report. A police report was not required for the call by the police department, which I explained to the rep, and also emphasized that I was on the phone line with Airbnb when I called the police dept. I asked the officer to make a report since Airbnb insisted.

I received the payout In full. I provided the police report when it became available. I received an email two days later that the guests were being refunded because the report by the police did not read that the guests had a "wild party"...that the funds would be extracted from my account, and that the decision is final and that Airbnb will not engage in any discussion of this case. I have no idea how these words “wild party” even came into the picture, nor how they were relevant. No police report will ever read, “wild party”…that is not the language used in a police report. Having a police report for the incident at hand made no sense, as the reason the guests were evicted was not due to that.

It states clearly on all of my listings' house rules that if law enforcement is called as a result of the guests' actions, no refund shall be issued. (this due to the incident in March where the same thing happened) The listing the guests booked had the house rules mysteriously changed by someone other than me. All I can conclude is that Airbnb tampered with my house rules in order to make the outcome in favor of the guests. I would find it hard to believe that the guests would be able to hack that well.

I wonder if the refund actually went to the guests or if Airbnb pocketed it. I called in and asked to speak to a senior rep or supervisor, and there is not one. Airbnb is not structured this way. There is absolutely no recourse.

This baffles me, infuriates me, and is so very disappointing.

I must place this intensity into creating an alternative.
A$A$A
We had a TERRIBLE experience with our very first renter. We had our rental on VRBO for 3 years previous with little to no issues at all. We thought we’d add AirBnB to generate more renters. I was mystified by this $1M coverage as well. The very first renter from AirBnB left the house so filthy and trashed that I reached out to them with an invoice for what I paid. In return he got nasty and wrote a horrendous review. I immediately went to AirBnB and their answer was to reach out to the renter. WHAT??!!?? I said again that I did, and they did not agree to do anything. I asked to be removed from their services and then it took forever to get it off of their system. I have continued with VRBO. We require every renter to get the $99 insurance that VRBO will return IF we make no claim. The funny thing is that I’ve never had to make a claim. Coincidence? I don’t think so. Thank you for writing this! It makes me so angry to see their commercials and ads because they don’t deserve any business. They need to change their practices drastically because a lawsuit is imminent.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
In how days will I get refund from SBI if payment failed during transaction but amount being deducted from my account?
A$A$A
You may require following things for further process.

Transection ID.

Your account Number.

Mode of Payment NEFT/RTGS/IMPS

Reference number (if any)

Screen shot of the failed massage.

The moment money gets deducted but the transfer is failed, bank will automatically reverse the transaction with 24 to 48 hours, If not Follow these steps.

Call the customer care, let them know regarding the trouble.

Wait for sometime, Check if amount is reverted.

Go to your branch, and let them know about the issue.

If anything doesn't help write an Email to the bramch manager providing all the details and they will initiate the refund after checking the authenticity.
A$A$A
You may not get it at all, unless you raise a complaint or chargeback with SBI. In failed transactions, the amount may not come automatically. Actually, in failed transactions, many parties/intermediaries are involved such as acquiring bank, Payment Gateway/aggregator, issuing bank etc. Bank takes necessary step on receiving complaint from customer. It may take around 5 to 7 days from date of receipt of complaint to get the refund.
A$A$A
It’ll take up to 7 days. Within 7 Days the amount which is deducted from your account will be deposited again.
A$A$A
Within 7 working days
A$A$A
It would take 10 days for the amount to get deposited in your account . Check the balance after you get a message from the bank.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
What are the necessary things needed to sell online?
A$A$A
Here are the top 5 things that leap to the front of my mind with when it comes to setting up an online store for the first time.

1. Get Your Financials Set Up

I’m not just talking about having an accounting software solution — though you certainly need that, too — I’m referring to having a place where your earnings will go (and expenses will come from) and having a system through which you can process transactions. The first is a merchant bank account. To put it simply, this kind of account allows you to accept payments from credit cards and debit cards, which you’ll need if you want to complete any transactions with future customers over the Internet.

Setting up a small business merchant account at your bank or credit union can be tricky. You’ll often have a better time setting up an Internet merchant account using an intermediary. These are companies that specialize in creating accounts for online-based businesses. They all carry fees and have different terms so be certain to do your due diligence before signing on the dotted line.

You also need a method through which transactions are processed. Often called payment gateways, these services are designed for online e-commerce businesses and work by handling the processing aspect of each transaction. This means processing your customer’s payment information and the handling of cash as it’s moved from the customer to your merchant account.

Payment gateway and shopping cart compatibility is crucial as well. Check and double check for compatibility from all sides. Merchant accounts sometimes come equipped with payment gateways but don’t feel limited to just that option. It’s best to use a popular gateway to ensure security and effectiveness. A few examples include PayPal, Google Checkout and Amazon Payments.

A few key tips:

What you end up selecting has a lot to do with the number of transactions you anticipate on needing to process each day and each month.

If your site is WordPress-based, WordPress integration is a must. Your shopping cart plugin or total e-commerce solution needs to work seamlessly with your payment gateway. Otherwise, you’re just asking for issues to pop up with either payment processing, order completion or in a myriad of other areas.

The gateway you choose also needs to have good quality customer support. Since your customers will be relying on it, you need to be able to rely on the service provider. Look for a system that provides 24/7 support and has highly responsive staff.

2. Shopping Cart or Store Platform

There are numerous shopping carts available to power your e-commerce store. If your site is WordPress-based, you have plenty of plugin options to sort through. You may opt for a shopping cart or a full store platform. What you choose will depend on the kind of store you’ll run, how you want to process payments, and what specific functions you want included. Typically, there are free and premium versions of shopping carts available.

As far as plugins go, your options are vast. Of course, we’re going to recommend Ecommerce Themes, Professional Ecommerce Themes heartily, but we’d like to think that its position as the most popular e-commerce solution on the web says a lot for its credentials.

3. Web Hosting and a Domain Name

While it’s true that you need a domain and hosting before you set up any kind of site, it’s especially important for you to think it through in the case of setting up a store. Why? Because your online store will become an intrinsic part of your brand. A failure to take your time in selecting an appropriate hosting and domain name package will lead to trouble later on.

A good web host for your e-commerce site will have a long-standing track record of reliability, security and uptime. And though where you register your domain name doesn’t matter as much, the name you select does. So take your time during the selection process. Make sure it captures your brand perfectly. Do some keyword research to make sure you’re targeting the appropriate audience. An optimized domain name is the icing on the cake when it comes to SEO.

4. SSL

Secure Socket Layer — SSL for short — is the kind of certificate your e-commerce site needs in order to protect the personal and financial data of your customers. No one is going to make a purchase from you if they don’t feel like their information is secure. This is why making sure that your site offers SSL protection is essential. Customers need that reassurance.

You can typically purchase an SSL certificate from your web hosting provider. It usually costs a set amount per year and it’s worth every penny.

It’s just bad form to put your customers’ personal information at risk, so don’t do it!

5. Something to Sell

This sounds like a no-brainer, I’m certain, but you’d be surprised by how many people try to start an online store without a clear direction. There are so many drop ship store options now that you don’t necessarily need to be able to produce anything to become an online store owner. You don’t even need to set up your own inventory for some of these stores. Even so, you still need to have a clear idea of what it is you’re going to sell.
E$E$E

Q$Q$Q
How do i build an affiliate e-commerce website?
A$A$A
These guidelines from Webnexs can assist you to build an affiliate Ecommerce website effortlessly. These are some of the very important things that you need to follow to build the best Ecommerce website.

#Step 1: Market Analysis

Inspect the market situation as well as requirements of the consumers and setup your Ecommerce website according to that. Decide what you are going to put up for sale in your Ecommerce website. This approach will help you make good profit from your Ecommerce Website.

#Step 2: Domain Registration

Select your Domain and Register the Domain name to keep away from any legal problems. Your Domain is the virtual address or name to your Ecommerce store and it is how customers can visit it directly.

#Step 3: Website Design

Construct your Ecommerce site depending to the kind of products you sell. For the convenience of your costumers, always plan for a user friendly site. Only provide the necessary information. Avoid giving numerous details and make the customers annoyed.

#Step 4: Add your products to the store

Now, you can add the products to your Ecommerce store and start selling it. Make gallery of all the products that are available in your Ecommerce store. This will help the customers to find the products from your store easily and purchase will be done quickly without any trouble.

#Step 5: Website Management

Administer your site in a normal routine. Organizing the site will aid your buyers to get into your site even during peak time without any trouble.

#Step 6: Payment Gateway

Make the check out process in an easier way. A difficult checkout method will not lead to a successful purchase. Therefore, keep away from complex check out procedure as well as provide a better payment gateway alternative for the handiness of your customers.

#Step 7: Shipment Management

Manage your shipment in a regular basis. Track every carrier and the products there in the shipment, the date of delivery of the products, etc. This helps you to deliver the products to the customer on estimated date.

If you are not very greatly common with these stipulations you can just hire an Ecommerce website builder to construct your billion buck Ecommerce website.

Contact Webnexs

Webnexs is the chief Ecommerce Solution contributor that aids you to construct your Ecommerce website. For more details about Ecommerce website, contact Webnexs.
A$A$A
Hey Aaron,

maybe at BizWebs.com can help you.

It´s online store builder (something like a Shopify but smaller with individual approach). With specific offer. Free plan up to 100 products. With eCommerce features, unlimited pages, social media widgets and much more. Check the website Start Your Online Business Today with BizWebs.com.

As you can see, they even use Affiliate program as well. Affiliate program - BizWebs.com

If you are interested, contact me or use an email on the BizWebs website / section contacts:)

Regards,

Lenka Lacová
A$A$A
Hi there!

I would suggest  YITH WooCommerce Affiliates plugin to manage Affiliate system on your website. I found it very useful, hope you do as well.

It works with WooCommerce plugin and easily manage by users end and also with administrator.

There are two more which i have used before but now i've stucked with YTIH WooCommerce becuase its easy to use and manage

Affiliates Manager

AffiliateWP

Hope you found it useful
A$A$A
Hi, use WordPress since It is Highly Optimized for Search Engine, with High Security, Flexible. has the largest support community in the world, there's a lot of free plugins and it is easy to setup and manage. then you can use Woocommerce to build the eCommerce site.

But!!! if you don’t want so much effort, you can be an affiliate in Aliexpress, and There’s a plugin called Aliplugin, that helps you setup an ecommerce site within a few minutes.
A$A$A
You can use Shopify cause through that you can add many affiliate programme and you can also automate that,as I am a Shopify expert I had done more than 50+ shop including affiliate shop which is based on Amazon,eBay,teespring and many more. with Shopify you can automate everything
A$A$A
You can build an affiliate e-commerce website using a Premium WordPress Theme. You can also consider Fresh Store Builder or Azon Authority Ready Made Script.

But I will suggest to build an affiliate niche site that will help to rank better in the SERPs and get more traffic as well as sales and commission.
A$A$A
Hi, I recently built my own affiliate website. I joined a membership site that offers full training and ‘know how’. Ironically, I was so satisfied with the quality that my first site promotes Wealthy Affiliate. I am now interested in other affiliate opportunities as there are far more available beyond amazon. All the best.

The Wealthy Affiliate Review 2016
A$A$A
I am not sure that this solution will meet your needs but still you can have a look at a new solution for e-commerce sites building. BROWUSE is helps to build a web-site (to install a website theme) and hosts this website. You can read more here: http://browuse.com/
A$A$A
Ecommerce Software - Best Ecommerce Platform Made for You - Free Trial
E$E$E

